<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Common prayers</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>

<h1>Devotionary</h1>

<h2>Common prayers</h2>
<div>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_visit"> Visit to the Blessed Sacrament</a><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_a"> Angelus</a><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_mo"> Morning offering</a><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_m"> Memorare</a><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_bbm"> Grace before meals</a><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_gam"> Grace after meals</a><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_aoc"> Act of contrition</a><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_ga"> Guardian Angel</a><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_hr"> Holy Rosary</a><br/><br/>
<b><a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_pam"> Prayers after Mass</a></b><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_ptsmta"> Prayer to St Michael the Archangel</a><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_posta"> Prayer of St Thomas Aquinas</a><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_ptjc"> Prayer to Jesus Crucified</a><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_ac"> Anima Christi</a><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_pttvm"> Prayer to the Virgin Mary</a><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_ptsj"> Prayer to St Joseph</a><br/><br/>
<b><a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_soc"> Sacrament of Confession</a></b><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_gftsoc"> Guide for the Sacrament of Confession</a><br/>
<a href="commonPrayers.xhtml#cp_eocft"> Examination of conscience for teens</a><br/>
</div>

<h2>Common prayers</h2>
<div class="prayer" id="cp_visit">
<h3>Visit to the Blessed Sacrament</h3>
  <b>V/</b> O Sacrament most holy! O Sacrament divine! <br/>
  <b>R/</b> All praise and all thanksgiving, be every moment Thine!
  <p>
  <i>Our Father, Hail Mary, Glory be...</i>
  </p>
  <p>
  [After repeating this three times, we repeat the aspiration ‘O Sacrament most holy…’ and then say the following Spiritual Communion]:
</p><p>
  I wish, Lord, to receive You, with the purity, humility and devotion with which Your most holy Mother received You; with the spirit and fervour of the saints.
</p>
</div>

<div class="prayer" id="cp_a">
<h3>Angelus</h3>
  <b>V/</b> The Angel of the Lord declared unto Mary,<br/>
  <b>R/</b> And she conceived by the Holy Spirit.<br/><br/>
  <i>  Hail Mary.</i><br/><br/>
  <b>V/</b> Behold the handmaid of the Lord,<br/>
  <b>R/</b> Be it done unto me according to Thy word.<br/><br/>
  <i>  Hail Mary.</i><br/><br/>
  <b>V/</b> And the Word was made flesh,<br/>
  <b>R/</b> And dwelt among us.<br/><br/>
  <i>  Hail Mary.</i><br/><br/>
  <b>V/</b> Pray for us, O holy Mother of God,<br/>
  <b>R/</b> That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.<br/><br/>
Let us pray. Pour forth, we beseech Thee, O Lord, Thy grace into our hearts; that we, to whom the incarnation of Christ, Thy Son, was made known by the message of an angel, may by His Passion and Cross be brought to the glory of His Resurrection, through the same Christ Our Lord. Amen.<br/>
</div>

<div class="prayer" id="cp_mo">
<h3>Morning offering</h3>
O Jesus, through the most pure heart of Mary, I offer you all the prayers, works, sufferings and joys of this day, for all the intentions of your Divine Heart. Amen.<br/>
</div>

<div class="prayer" id="cp_m">
<h3>Memorare</h3>
Remember, O most gracious Virgin Mary, that never was it known that anyone who fled to thy protection, implored thy help, or sought thy intercession was left unaided. Inspired by this confidence, I fly unto thee, O Virgin of virgins, my mother; to thee do I come, before thee I stand, sinful and sorrowful. O Mother of the Word Incarnate, despise not my petitions, but in thy mercy hear and answer me. Amen.<br/>
</div>

<div class="prayer" id="cp_bbm">
<h3>Blessing before meals</h3>
Bless us, O Lord, and these Thy gifts which we are about to receive from Thy bounty, through Christ our Lord, Amen.<br/>
</div>

<div class="prayer" id="cp_gam">
<h3>Grace after meals</h3>
We give you thanks, Almighty God, for all Your benefits, who live and reign, world without end. Amen.<br/>
</div>

<div class="prayer" id="cp_aoc">
<h3>Act of contrition</h3>
O My God, because you are so good, I am very sorry that I have sinned against you, and by the help of your grace, I will not sin again. Amen.<br/>
</div>

<div class="prayer" id="cp_ga">
<h3>Guardian Angel</h3>
Angel of God, my Guardian dear, to whom His love commits me here, ever this day (or night) be at my side, to light and guard, to rule and guide. Amen.<br/>
</div>

<div class="prayer" id="cp_hr">
<h3>Holy Rosary</h3>
In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.<br/><br/>
<b>The Apostles' Creed</b><br/>
I believe in God, the Father Almighty, Creator of heaven and earth; and in Jesus Christ, His only Son, our Lord; Who was conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, was crucified, died, and was buried. He descended into hell; the third day He arose again from the dead. He ascended into heaven, and sits at the right hand of God, the Father Almighty; from thence He shall come to judge the living and the dead. I believe in the Holy Spirit, the Holy Catholic Church, the communion of Saints, the forgiveness of sins, the resurrection of the body and life everlasting. Amen.<br/><br/>
Then you can say one "Our Father", three "Hail Marys" and the "Glory be to the Father."<br/><br/>
<b>V/</b> Thou, O Lord, wilt open my lips,<br/>
<b>R/</b> And my tongue shall announce thy praise.<br/>
<b>V/</b> Incline to my aid, O God.<br/>
<b>R/</b> O Lord, make haste to help me.<br/>
<b>V/</b> Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit.<br/>
<b>R/</b> As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.<br/><br/>
After each decade say the following prayer requested by the Blessed Virgin Mary at Fatima:<br/>
"O my Jesus, forgive us our sins, save us from the fires of hell, lead all souls to Heaven, especially those in most need of your mercy."<br/><br/>

<p><b>The Joyful Mysteries</b>
(recited Monday and Saturday)<br/>
1. The Annunciation 2. The Visitation<br/>
3. The Birth of Our Lord<br/>
4. The Pr esentation<br/>
5. The Finding of the Child Jesus in the Temple<br/>
</p>
<p><b>The Mysteries of Light</b>
(recited Thursday)<br/>
1. The Baptism of Jesus<br/>
2. The Wedding Feast at Cana<br/>
3. The Proclamation of the Kingdom and the call to Conversion 4. The Transfiguration<br/>
5. The Institution of the Eucharist<br/>
</p>
<p><b>The Sorrowful Mysteries</b>
(recited Tuesday and Friday)<br/>
1. The Agony in the Garden<br/>
2. The Scourging at the Pillar<br/>
3. The Crowning with Thorns<br/>
4. The Carrying of the Cross<br/>
5. The Crucifixion and Death of Our Lord<br/>
</p>
<p><b>The Glorious Mysteries</b>
(recited Wednesday and Sunday)<br/>
1. The Resurrection<br/>
2. The Ascension<br/>
3. The Descent of the Holy Spirit<br/>
4. The Assumption<br/>
5. The Coronation of the Blessed Virgin Mary<br/>
</p>
<br/>
At the end of the fifth Mystery we say the Hail, Holy Queen:
Hail, holy Queen, Mother of mercy, hail, our life, our sweetness and our hope. To thee do we cry, poor banished children of Eve: to thee do we send up our sighs, mourning and weeping in this vale of tears. Turn then, most gracious Advocate, thine eyes of mercy toward us, and after this our exile, show unto us the blessed fruit of thy womb, Jesus, O merciful, O loving, O sweet Virgin Mary! Amen.<br/><br/>
<p>
<b>V/</b> Lord, have mercy.<br/>
<b>R/</b> Lord, have mercy.<br/>

<b>V/</b> Christ, have mercy.<br/>
<b>R/</b> Christ, have mercy.<br/>

<b>V/</b> Lord, have mercy.<br/>
<b>R/</b> Christ hear us.<br/>

<b>V/</b> Christ hear us.<br/>
<b>R/</b> Christ graciously hear us.<br/>

<b>V/</b> God the Father of heaven,<br/>
<b>R/</b> have mercy on us.<br/>

<b>V/</b> God the Son, Redeemer of the world,<br/>
<b>R/</b> have mercy on us.<br/>

<b>V/</b> Holy Trinity, one God,<br/>
<b>R/</b> have mercy on us.<br/>

</p>
<p>
<b>V/</b> Holy Mary  <br/> <b>R/</b>  have mercy on us.<br/><br/>

Holy Mary<br/>
Holy Mother of God, <br/>
Holy Virgin of virgins, <br/>
Mother of Christ, <br/>
Mother of the Church, <br/>
Mother of divine grace, <br/>
Mother most pure, <br/>
Mother most chaste, <br/>
Mother inviolate,<br/>
Mother undefiled, <br/>
Mother most lovable, <br/>
Mother most admirable, <br/>
Mother of good counsel, <br/>
Mother of our Creator, <br/>
Mother of our Saviour, <br/>
Virgin most prudent, <br/>
Virgin most venerable, <br/>
Virgin most renowned, <br/>
Virgin most powerful, <br/>
Virgin most merciful, <br/>
Virgin most faithful, <br/>
Mirror of justice,<br/>
Seat of wisdom,<br/>
Cause of our joy,<br/>
Spiritual vessel,<br/>
Vessel of honour,<br/>
Singular vessel of devotion, <br/>
Mystical rose,<br/>
Tower of David,<br/>
Tower of ivory,<br/>
House of gold,<br/>
Ark of the covenant, <br/>
Gate of heaven, <br/>
Morning star,<br/>
Health of the sick, <br/>
Refuge of sinners, <br/>
Comfort of the afflicted, <br/>
Help of Christians, <br/>
Queen of Angels, <br/>
Queen of Patriarchs, <br/>
Queen of Prophets, <br/>
Queen of Apostles, <br/>
Queen of Martyrs, <br/>
Queen of Confessors,<br/>
Queen of Virgins,<br/>
Queen of all Saints,<br/>
Queen conceived without original sin, <br/>
Queen assumed into heaven,<br/>
Queen of the most holy Rosary, <br/>
Queen of the family,<br/>
Queen of Peace.<br/>
</p>
<p>
<b>V/</b> Lamb of God, you take away the sins of the world,<br/>
<b>R/</b> Spare us, O Lord.<br/>

<b>V/</b> Lamb of God, you take away the sins of the world,<br/>
<b>R/</b> Graciously hear us, O Lord.<br/>

<b>V/</b> Lamb of God, you take away the sins of the world,<br/>
<b>R/</b> Have mercy on us.<br/>

<b>V/</b> Pray for us, O holy Mother of God.<br/>
<b>R/</b> That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.<br/>
</p>

<p>
  Let us pray:<br/>
  O God, whose only-begotten Son, by his life, death and resurrection, has purchased for us the rewards of eternal life; grant, we beseech you, that meditating on these mysteries of the most holy Rosary of the Blessed Virgin Mary, we may both imitate what they contain, and obtain what they promise, through the same Christ our Lord.<br/>
  Amen.
</p>
</div>

<div class="prayer" id="cp_pam">
<h2>Prayers after Mass</h2>
</div>

<div class="prayer" id="cp_ptsmta">
<h3>Prayer to St Michael the Archangel</h3>
St. Michael the Archangel, defend us in battle: be our defence against the wickedness and snares of the devil. May God rebuke him, we humbly pray. And do you, O prince of the heavenly host, by the power of God thrust into hell Satan and all the evil spirits who prowl about the world for the ruin of souls. Amen.
</div>

<div class="prayer" id="cp_posta">
<h3>Prayer of St Thomas Aquinas</h3>
<p>
Lord, father all-powerful and ever-living God, I thank you, for even though I am a sinner, your unprofitable servant, not because of my worth but in the kindness of your mercy, you have fed me with the precious body and blood of your Son, our Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that this Holy Communion may not bring me condemnation and punishment but forgiveness and salvation. May it be a helmet of faith and a shield of good will. May it purify me from evil ways and put an end to my evil passions. May it bring me charity and patience, humility and obedience, and growth in the power to do good. May it be my strong defence against all my enemies, visible and invisible, and the perfect calming of all my evil impulses, bodily and spiritual. May it unite me more closely to you, the one true God, and lead me safely through death to everlasting happiness with you. And I pray that you will lead me, a sinner, to the banquet where you, with your son and Holy Spirit, are true and perfect light, total fulfilment, everlasting joy, gladness without end, and perfect happiness to your saints. Grant this through Christ our Lord. Amen.
</p>
</div>

<div class="prayer" id="cp_ptjc">
<h3>Prayer to Jesus Crucified</h3>
<p>
My good and dear Jesus, I kneel before you, asking you most earnestly to engrave upon my heart a deep and lively faith, hope, and charity, with true repentance for my sins, and a firm resolve to make amends. As I reflect upon your five wounds, and dwell upon them with deep compassion and grief, I recall, good Jesus, the words the prophet David spoke long ago concerning yourself: they have pierced my hands and my feet, they have counted all my bones!
</p>
</div>

<div class="prayer" id="cp_ac">
<h3>Anima Christi</h3>
<p>
Soul of Christ, sanctify me.<br/>
Body of Christ, heal me.<br/>
Blood of Christ, drench me.<br/>
Water from the side of Christ, wash me.<br/>
Passion of Christ, strengthen me.<br/>
Good Jesus, hear me.<br/>
In your wounds shelter me.<br/>
From turning away keep me.<br/>
From the evil one protect me.<br/>
At the hour of my death call me.<br/>
Into your presence lead me,<br/>
To praise you with all your saints<br/>
for ever and ever.<br/>
Amen.
</p>
</div>

<div class="prayer" id="cp_pttvm">
<h3>Prayer to the Virgin Mary</h3>
<p>
Mary, holy virgin mother, I have received your Son, Jesus Christ. With love you became his mother, gave birth to him, nursed him, and helped him grow to manhood. With love I return him to you, to hold once more, to love with all your heart, and to offer to the Holy Trinity as your supreme act of worship for your honour and for the good of all your pilgrim brothers and sisters.
Mother, ask God to forgive my sins and to help me serve him more faithfully. Keep me true to Christ until death, and let me come to praise him with you forever and ever. Amen.
</p>
</div>

<div class="prayer" id="cp_ptsj">
<h3>Prayer to St Joseph</h3>
<p>
St. Joseph, father and guardian of virgins, to whose faithful keeping Christ Jesus, innocence itself, and Mary, the virgin of virgins, were entrusted, I pray and beseech you by that twofold and most precious charge, by Jesus and Mary, to save me from all uncleanness, to keep my mind untainted, my heart pure, and my body chaste; and to help me always to serve Jesus and Mary in perfect chastity. Amen.
</p>
</div>


<div class="prayer" id="cp_soc">
<h2>Sacrament of Confession</h2>
</div>


<div class="prayer" id="cp_gftsoc">
<h3>Guide for the Sacrament of Confession</h3>
<p>
In the Name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.<br/>
<b>—Penitent:</b> Bless me father, for I have sinned. My last confession was ___ days/months/years ago.<br/>
<b>—Priest:</b> May the Lord be in your heart, and help you to confess your sins with true sorrow.<br/>
<b>—Penitent:</b> Lord, You know all things: You know that I love You (Jn 21,17).<br/><br/>
[The penitent lists the kind and number of sins committed since the last valid confession (e.g. I missed Mass 3 times; I lied 20 times). The priest may ask a few questions and/or offer advice. Finally the priest gives an appropriate penance (e.g. “For your penance, please pray 2 Hail Marys) and then invites the penitent to make an Act of Contrition.]<br/><br/>
<b>—Penitent:</b> Lord Jesus, Son of God, have mercy on me, a sinner.<br/>
or: O My God, because you are so good, I am very sorry that I have sinned against you, and by the help of your grace, I will not sin again. Amen.<br/>
or: O my God, I am heartily sorry for having offended Thee, and I detest all my sins because of Thy just punishments, but most of all because they offend Thee, my God, Who art all-good and deserving of all my love. I firmly resolve, with the help of Thy grace, to sin no more and to avoid the near occasions of sin. Amen.<br/><br/>
[The priest then says the formula of Absolution]<br/><br/>
<b>—Priest:</b> God, the Father of mercies, through the death and resurrection of His Son has reconciled the world to Himself and sent the Holy Spirit among us for the forgiveness of sins; through the ministry of the Church, may God give you pardon and peace, and <b>I ABSOLVE YOU FROM YOUR SINS IN THE NAME OF THE FATHER, AND OF THE SON, + AND OF THE HOLY SPIRIT.</b><br/>
<b>—Penitent:</b> Amen.<br/>
<b>—Priest:</b> May the Passion of Our Lord Jesus Christ, the intercession of the Blessed Virgin Mary and of all the Saints, whatever good you do and suffering you endure, heal your sins, help you to grow in holiness, and reward you with eternal life. Go in peace. —Penitent: Thanks be to God.<br/>
</p>
</div>


<div class="prayer" id="cp_eocft">
<h3>Examination of conscience for teens</h3>
<p>
<b>1ST COMMANDMENT – RELATIONSHIPS: “I am the LORD your God: you shall not have strange Gods before me.”</b><br/>
Do I put anything before God? Family, friends, boyfriend, girlfriend, career, sports, my looks, my health, my future, studies, money, music, the opinion others have of me? Being accepted by the crowd?<br/>
Do I make a strange god out of drugs, alcohol, sex? TV, video games, the computer, email, mobile phone?<br/>
What areas of my life are lacking in trusting God?<br/>
Do I doubt God’s power to love and forgive me?<br/>
Do I pray every day - read the Bible, pray the rosary, make visits to the Blessed Sacrament?<br/>
Do I try to keep God first in my life?<br/>
Do I doubt God’s existence?<br/>
</p>

<p>
<b>2ND COMMANDMENT – MOUTH: “You shall not take the name of the LORD your God in vain.”</b><br/>
Do I say “Oh God!” and not finish the sentence? (I could finish the sentence “Oh God, please help me be more patient!”)<br/>
Do I curse and use foul language?<br/>
Have I offended God’s name by disrespecting the name and reputation of some of His children?<br/>
Do I talk one way in front of one group of people and another way with another group of people?<br/>
Do I speak highly of God to my family and friends, or am I embarrassed and afraid to talk about Him?”<br/>
Do I curse others?<br/>
</p>

<p>
<b>3RD COMMANDMENT – WORSHIP: “Remember to keep holy the LORD'S Day.”</b><br/>
Do I go to Church every Sunday? (not just most Sundays) You have to go to Mass every Sunday. It is a serious sin not to go and needs to be confessed.<br/>
Do I make Sunday, the Lord’s Day, a special day?<br/>
Have I missed Mass on any Holy Days of Obligation? Do I know when they are?<br/>
Do I prepare for the Lord’s Day with monthly confession?<br/>
Do I make time to read over and pray the readings before or after Mass?<br/>
Do I do anything special or extra on Sunday to make it the Lord’s Day, not mine?<br/>
What do I really worship?<br/>
</p>

<p>
<b>4TH COMMANDMENT - PARENTS: “Honour your father and your mother.”</b><br/>
Do I honour and respect my parents, even if I don’t always get along with them?<br/>
Even if I don’t like them, do I still respect and honour them - even if it’s “only” for the gift of life that God gave to me through them?<br/>
How about the other members of my family, my community, my parish and my friends?<br/>
If my parents are divorced, have I sinned due to uncontrollable anger or frustration?<br/>
Have I been so attached to my parents that I put them before God?<br/>
Do I respect the elderly?<br/>
</p>

<p>
<b>5TH COMMANDMENT – ANGER: “You shall not kill.”</b><br/>
Does anger have a grip on me? Why?<br/>
Do I have violent thoughts toward others or myself?<br/>
Do I watch and enjoy violent movies and or video games?<br/>
Have I ever physically hurt or attempted to hurt someone?<br/>
Have I ever thought of killing anybody?<br/>
Have I ever thought about or attempted to take my own life?<br/>
Did I ever have an abortion or help someone else have an abortion?<br/>
Do I speak up for God’s life and God’s plan, or do I keep a deadly, cowardly silence in the presence of certain people?<br/>
Do I have any hate in my heart?<br/>
Have I corrected someone without kindness and compassion?<br/>
Have I done violence to my body by using drugs, alcohol, eating too much food or the wrong food, reckless driving, or taking foolish and dangerous risks?<br/>
</p>

<p>
<b>6th COMMANDMENT – PURITY: “You shall not commit adultery.”</b><br/>
Have I entertained impure thoughts without praying for help?<br/>
Have I committed acts of impurity with myself? (that is, masturbation)<br/>
Have I committed acts of impurity with someone or put them in occasion of sinning against chastity with my attitude or conversation?<br/>
Have I been immodest in my dress and choice of entertainment?<br/>
Do I look at pornography? (magazines, videos, internet, etc.)<br/>
Do I engage in lustful looks and thoughts?<br/>
Do I engage in passionate kissing and sinful touching?<br/>
Do I have respect for the same and opposite sex?<br/>
Do I love myself in a selfish way?<br/>
Have I been lazy with my prayers and reading the Bible?<br/>
Have I been respectful of people who struggle with homosexual feelings and are trying to live a chaste life?<br/>
Am I obsessed with my body and not my soul?<br/>
</p>

<p>
<b>7th COMMANDMENT – STEALING: “You shall not steal.”</b><br/>
Have I taken anything that is not mine?<br/>
Have I cheated at school?<br/>
Have I stolen from work, including time?<br/>
Am I honest with my responsibilities?<br/>
Am I generous in sharing with others - my time, talents and possessions?<br/>
Have I stolen time from God due to spiritual laziness?<br/>
Do I accept that all I have is a gift from God?<br/>
Am I grateful?<br/>
</p>

<p>
<b>8th COMMANDMENT – LYING: “You shall not bear false witness against your neighbour.”</b><br/>
Do I lie? If so, how often?<br/>
Do I think that “small” lies are ok?<br/>
Do I confess all the lies - big and small?<br/>
Do I lie out of convenience?<br/>
Am I afraid to tell the truth?<br/>
Do I distort the truth to put others down or build myself up?<br/>
Do I judge others before getting to know them?<br/>
Do I give others the benefit of the doubt?<br/>
Do I gossip and talk about others behind their back?<br/>
Have I been deceitful or two–faced?<br/>
Are there things in my life that I am hiding from others?<br/>
</p>

<p>
<b>9th COMMANDMENT – ENVY: “You shall not covet your neighbour’s wife.”</b><br/>
Am I jealous of others’ gifts or talents? Relationships?<br/>
Am I envious of someone’s body, looks, gifts, talents, etc.?<br/>
Do I appreciate and take care of myself?<br/>
Am I grateful for the person God made me?<br/>
Do I hate my body and myself?<br/>
Do I let my imagination run wild in a sinful way?<br/>
Do I believe God is calling me to holiness?<br/>
Do I understand the gift God has given me through my Baptism?<br/>
</p>

<p>
<b>10th COMMANDMENT – GREED: “You shall not covet your neighbour’s goods.”</b><br/>
Do I dwell too much on material possessions?<br/>
Do I value things over people?<br/>
Do I think money will bring me happiness?<br/>
Am I envious of others and what they have?<br/>
Am I content with what I have?<br/>
Do I share generously with others?<br/>
Do I desire to go to heaven and see that as my true treasure?<br/>
</p>
</div>

</body>
</html>
