<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Common prayers</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
	<h2>Common prayers</h2>
	<h3>Visit to the Blessed Sacrament:</h3>
	<div class="prayer">
		<p>
		<b>V/</b> O Sacrament most holy! O Sacrament divine! <br/>
		<b>R/</b> All praise and all thanksgiving, be every moment Thine! <br/>
	</p>
	<p>
		Our Father, Hail Mary, Glory be...
		[ After repeating this three times, we repeat the aspiration ‘O Sacrament most holy…’ and then say the following Spiritual Communion ]:
	</p>
	<p>
		I wish, Lord, to receive You, with the purity, humility and devotion with which Your most holy Mother received You; with the spirit and fervour of the saints.
	</p>
	</div>
	<h3>Angelus:</h3>
	<div class="prayer">
		<b>V/</b> The Angel of the Lord declared unto Mary,<br/>
		<b>R/</b> And she conceived of the Holy Spirit. Hail Mary.<br/><br/>

		<b>V/</b> Behold the handmaid of the Lord, <br/>
		<b>R/</b> Be it done unto me according to your word. Hail Mary.<br/><br/>

		<b>V/</b> And the Word was made flesh,<br/>
		<b>R/</b> And dwelt among us. Hail Mary.<br/> <br/>

		<b>V/</b> Pray for us, O holy Mother of God,<br/>
		<b>R/</b> That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.<br/>

		<p>
		Let us pray. Pour forth, we beseech You, O Lord, Your grace into our hearts: that we, to whom the Incarnation of Christ Your Son was made known by the message of an Angel, may by His Passion and Cross be brought to the glory of His Resurrection. Through the same Christ our Lord. Amen.
		</p>
	</div>
	<h3>Morning offering:</h3>
	<div class="prayer">
		O Jesus, through the most pure heart of Mary, I offer you all the prayers, works, sufferings and joys of this day, for all the intentions of your Divine Heart in the Holy Mass. Amen.
	</div>
	<h3>Memorare:</h3>
	<div class="prayer">
		Remember, O most loving Virgin Mary, that it is a thing unheard of, that anyone ever had recourse to your protection, implored your help, or sought your intercession and was left forsaken. Filled therefore with confidence in your goodness I fly to you, O Mother, Virgin of Virgins. To you I come, before you I stand, a sorrowful sinner. Despise not my poor words, O Mother of the Word of God, but graciously hear and grant my prayer. Amen.
	</div>
	<h3>Blessing before meals:</h3>
	<div class="prayer">
		Bless us, O Lord, and these Thy gifts which we are about to receive from Thy bounty, through Christ our Lord, Amen.
	</div>
	<h3>Grace after meals:</h3>
	<div class="prayer">
		We give you thanks, Almighty God, for all Your benefits, who live and reign, world without end. Amen.<br/>
		May the souls of the faithful departed, through the mercy of God, rest in peace. Amen.
	</div>
	<h3>Act of contrition:</h3>
	<div class="prayer">
		O My God, because you are so good, I am very sorry that I have sinned against you, and by the help of your grace, I will not sin again. Amen.
	</div>
	<h3>Prayer of St Josemaría for families:</h3>
	<div class="prayer">
		O God our loving Father, Creator of all things, you sent your Son, Jesus Christ, our Redeemer, into the home of Mary and Joseph forming the Holy Family of Nazareth; inspire us by their example to imitate their selfless charity in our family life. Through the intercession of St. JosemarÌa, help our families to be united in the heart of Christ, enjoying a loving communion with each other, recognizing and upholding the sacredness of marriage, generously welcoming the gift of life, and valuing the inestimable gift of each family member. Help us dedicate ourselves in generous service to our families and to reflect the love that Christ had for Mary and Joseph, making our family a true domestic Church with Christ at its centre. Teach us to find Christ in the crosses that occur in family life and help us to find joy in them and unite them to him. Watch over and protect our family so that each member will be faithful to the Gospel and never stray from the path of holiness.  We ask you, through the intercession of St. JosemarÌa, to grant us the favour of (make your request). Amen. Jesus, Mary, and Joseph, we give our hearts and souls to you.
	</div>
	<h3>Prayer to St. Michael:</h3>
	<div class="prayer">
		St. Michael the Archangel, defend us in the day battle: be our defence against the wickedness and snares of the devil. May God rebuke him, we humbly pray. And do you, O prince of the heavenly host, by the power of God cast into hell Satan and all the evil spirits who prowl about the world for the ruin of souls. Amen.
	</div>
	<h3>Prayer to the Holy Family of Pope Francis:</h3>
	<div class="prayer">
		Jesus, Mary and Joseph, in you we contemplate the splendour of true love, to you we turn with trust. Holy Family of Nazareth, grant that our families too may be places of communion and prayer, authentic schools of the Gospel and small domestic Churches. Holy Family of Nazareth, may families never again experience violence, rejection and division: may all who have been hurt or scandalized find ready comfort and healing. Holy Family of Nazareth, may the approaching Synod of Bishops make us once more mindful of the sacredness and inviolability of the family, and its beauty in God’s plan. Jesus, Mary and Joseph, graciously hear our prayer.
	</div>
	<h3>Holy Rosary:</h3>
	<div class="prayer">
		<p>
		[Our Father, Hail Mary, Glory be (3 times)]
		</p>
		<p>
		<b>Spiritual Communion</b><br/>
		I wish, Lord, to receive you with the purity, humility and devotion with which your most Holy Mother received you, with the spirit and fervour of the saints.
		</p><p>
		In the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.
		</p>
	</div >
	<div class="rosaryPrayer">
		<b>Holy rosary</b><br/>
		<p>
		Per signum crucis de inimícis nostris líbera nos, Deus noster. In nómine Patris, et Fílii, et Spíritus Sancti. Amen.
		</p>

		<b>V/</b> Thou, O Lord, wilt open my lips,<br/>
		<b>R/</b> And my tongue shall announce thy praise.<br/><br/>

		<b>V/</b> Incline to my aid, O God.<br/>
		<b>R/</b> O Lord, make haste to help me.<br/><br/>

		<b>V/</b> Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Spirit.<br/>
		<b>R/</b> As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.<br/> <br/>

		<b>V/</b> Pray for us, O holy Mother of God,<br/>
		<b>R/</b> That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.<br/>

		<p><b>The Joyful Mysteries</b>
		(recited Monday and Saturday)<br/>
		1. The Annunciation 2. The Visitation<br/>
		3. The Birth of Our Lord<br/>
		4. The Pr esentation<br/>
		5. The Finding of the Child Jesus in the Temple<br/>
		</p>
		<p><b>The Mysteries of Light</b>
		(recited Monday and Thursday)<br/>
		1. The Baptism of Jesus<br/>
		2. The Wedding Feast at Cana<br/>
		3. The Proclamation of the Kingdom and the call to Conversion 4. The Transfiguration<br/>
		5. The Institution of the Eucharist<br/>
		</p>
		<p><b>The Sorrowful Mysteries</b>
		(recited Tuesday and Friday)<br/>
		1. The Agony in the Garden<br/>
		2. The Scourging at the Pillar<br/>
		3. The Crowning with Thorns<br/>
		4. The Carrying of the Cross<br/>
		5. The Crucifixion and Death of Our Lord<br/>
		</p>
		<p><b>The Glorious Mysteries</b>
		(recited Wednesday and Sunday)<br/>
		1. The Resurrection<br/>
		2. The Ascension<br/>
		3. The Descent of the Holy Spirit<br/>
		4. The Assumption<br/>
		5. The Coronation of the Blessed Virgin Mary<br/>
		</p>

		<p>
		Hail, Holy Queen, Mother of Mercy; Hail our life, our sweetness and our hope! To you do we cry, poor banished children of Eve. To you do we send up our sighs, mourning and weeping in this vale of tears! Turn, then, most gracious Advocate, your eyes of mercy towards us, and after this, our exile, show unto us the blessed fruit of your womb, Jesus. O clement, O loving, O sweet Virgin Mary.
		</p>
		<p>
		<b>V/</b> Lord, have mercy.<br/>
		<b>R/</b> Lord, have mercy.<br/>

		<b>V/</b> Christ, have mercy.<br/>
		<b>R/</b> Christ, have mercy.<br/>

		<b>V/</b> Lord, have mercy.<br/>
		<b>R/</b> Christ hear us.<br/>

		<b>V/</b> Christ hear us.<br/>
		<b>R/</b> Christ graciously hear us.<br/>

		<b>V/</b> God the Father of heaven,<br/>
		<b>R/</b> have mercy on us.<br/>

		<b>V/</b> God the Son, Redeemer of the world,<br/>
		<b>R/</b> have mercy on us.<br/>

		<b>V/</b> Holy Trinity, one God,<br/>
		<b>R/</b> have mercy on us.<br/>

		</p>
		<p>
		<b>V/</b> Holy Mary  <br/> <b>R/</b>  have mercy on us.<br/><br/>

		Holy Mary<br/>
		Holy Mother of God, <br/>
		Holy Virgin of virgins, <br/>
		Mother of Christ, <br/>
		Mother of the Church, <br/>
		Mother of divine grace, <br/>
		Mother most pure, <br/>
		Mother most chaste, <br/>
		Mother inviolate,<br/>
		Mother undefiled, <br/>
		Mother most lovable, <br/>
		Mother most admirable, <br/>
		Mother of good counsel, <br/>
		Mother of our Creator, <br/>
		Mother of our Saviour, <br/>
		Virgin most prudent, <br/>
		Virgin most venerable, <br/>
		Virgin most renowned, <br/>
		Virgin most powerful, <br/>
		Virgin most merciful, <br/>
		Virgin most faithful, <br/>
		Mirror of justice,<br/>
		Seat of wisdom,<br/>
		Cause of our joy,<br/>
		Spiritual vessel,<br/>
		Vessel of honour,<br/>
		Singular vessel of devotion, <br/>
		Mystical rose,<br/>
		Tower of David,<br/>
		Tower of ivory,<br/>
		House of gold,<br/>
		Ark of the covenant, <br/>
		Gate of heaven, <br/>
		Morning star,<br/>
		Health of the sick, <br/>
		Refuge of sinners, <br/>
		Comfort of the afflicted, <br/>
		Help of Christians, <br/>
		Queen of Angels, <br/>
		Queen of Patriarchs, <br/>
		Queen of Prophets, <br/>
		Queen of Apostles, <br/>
		Queen of Martyrs, <br/>
		Queen of Confessors,<br/>
		Queen of Virgins,<br/>
		Queen of all Saints,<br/>
		Queen conceived without original sin, <br/>
		Queen assumed into heaven,<br/>
		Queen of the most holy Rosary, <br/>
		Queen of the family,<br/>
		Queen of Peace.<br/>
	</p>
	<p>
		<b>V/</b> Lamb of God, you take away the sins of the world,<br/>
		<b>R/</b> Spare us, O Lord.<br/>

		<b>V/</b> Lamb of God, you take away the sins of the world,<br/>
		<b>R/</b> Graciously hear us, O Lord.<br/>

		<b>V/</b> Lamb of God, you take away the sins of the world,<br/>
		<b>R/</b> Have mercy on us.<br/>

		<b>V/</b> Pray for us, O holy Mother of God.<br/>
		<b>R/</b> That we may be made worthy of the promises of Christ.<br/>
	</p>
	<p>
		Let us pray:<br/>
		O God, whose only-begotten Son, by his life, death and resurrection, has purchased for us the rewards of eternal life; grant, we beseech you, that meditating on these mysteries of the most holy Rosary of the Blessed Virgin Mary, we may both imitate what they contain, and obtain what they promise, through the same Christ our Lord.<br/>
		Amen.
	</p>
	<p>
	For the needs of the Church and the State <br/>[Our Father. Hail Mary. Glory be.]
	</p>
	<p>
	For the (Arch)bishop of this Diocese and his intentions <br/>[Our Father. Hail Mary. Glory be.]
	</p>
	<p>
	For the Holy Souls in Purgatory <br/>[Our Father. Hail Mary.]
	</p>
	<p>
		<b>V/</b> May they rest in peace.<br/>
		<b>R/</b> Amen.<br/>
	</p>
	</div>
</body>
</html>
