<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Introduction</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
	<h3>ABOUT THE AUTHOR</h3>
	
	<p>Rev. George Boronat M.D. S.T.D is a Catholic priest from the Prelature of Opus Dei, working in the Archdiocese of Southwark in London. He is the Chaplain of The Cedars Independent School at Croydon, and works also in Kelston Club (Balham) and Oakwood Independent School (Purley), and has developed his pastoral ministry mainly with young people.</p>
	
	<p>Scripture quotations are from The Revised Standard Version of the Bible: Catholic Edition, copyright © 1965, 1966 the Division of Christian Education of the National Council of the Churches of Christ in the United States of America. Used by permission. All rights reserved.</p>
	
	<p>Copyright © 2015 by George Boronat. All rights reserved. This book or any portion thereof may not be reproduced or used in any manner whatsoever without the express written permission of the publisher except for the use of brief quotations. For permission requests, write to <a href="http://www.ipraywiththegospel.org/contact-us/">Contact-us</a></p>

	<h3>How to use iPray </h3>
	<p>
	This little booklet is designed to help you improve your friendship with Jesus Christ by using His Gospel, which is the best book for prayer. By following Him, His life, His words, His actions, you will fall in love with Him. You learn to walk by walking, to speak by speaking, and to pray... by praying. Have a daily time to chat with God and you will be closer to Him each day. He wants you to be his intimate friend. He wants you to become a saint. If you have this personal relationship with Him through prayer, then you will also be able to bring other people closer to Him, and they in turn will discover the joy of friendship with Jesus and the call to holiness. “How to pray? This is a simple matter. I would say: Pray any way you like, so long as you do pray. (St John Paul II)
	</p>

	<h3>How should I do my mental prayer? </h3>
	<p>
	Don’t worry. To do your mental prayer is very easy; you just have to speak to God in your own words. Wherever you are you can speak with Jesus, but try to find a calm place where you won’t be distracted: your room, for example. The Introductory prayer serves to tune in to Jesus; say it slowly, understanding what you are asking. Then read the holy gospel of the day and ask yourself what Jesus wants to say to you in this passage of his life. Jesus is going to tell you great things in the interior of your soul. Let him speak to you. At the end of your mental prayer you can say the Closing prayer, giving thanks to Our Lord for the good resolutions that inspired you. It is easy, isn’t it? 
	</p>
	<h3>Introductory prayer</h3>
	<p>
	My Lord and my God, I firmly believe that you are here, that you see me, that you hear me. I adore you with profound reverence, I ask you for pardon of my sins, and the grace to make this time of prayer fruitful. My Mother Immaculate, Saint Joseph my father and lord, my guardian angel, intercede for me.
	</p>	

	<h3>Closing prayer</h3>
	<p>
	I give you thanks, my God, for the good resolutions, affections and inspirations you have communicated to me in this meditation. I ask you for help to put them into effect. My Mother Immaculate, Saint Joseph my father and lord, my guardian angel, intercede for me.
	</p>

</body>
</html>