<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Introduction</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
</head>

<body>
	<h3>ABOUT THE AUTHOR</h3>

	<p>Rev. George Boronat M.D. S.T.D is a Catholic priest from the Prelature of Opus Dei, working in the Archdiocese of Southwark in London. He is the Chaplain of The Cedars School in Croydon, and of Kelston Club &amp; Study Centre (Balham). He also works in Oakwood School (Purley). He has developed his pastoral ministry mainly with young people.</p>

	<p>Scripture quotations are from The Revised Standard Version of the Bible: Catholic Edition, copyright © 1965, 1966 the Division of Christian Education of the National Council of the Churches of Christ in the United States of America. Used by permission. All rights reserved.</p>

	<p>Copyright © 2015 by George Boronat. All rights reserved. This book or any portion thereof may not be reproduced or used in any manner whatsoever without the express written permission of the publisher except for the use of brief quotations. For permission requests, write to <a href="http://www.ipraywiththegospel.org/contact-us/">Contact-us</a></p>

	<h3>How to use iPray </h3>
	<p><b>— Can I pray – as in talk with God? </b>Most certainly! God created you to be His friend; and friends talk to each other. To do mental prayer you don’t need training. There is no standard method.</p>
  <p><b>— How do I begin? </b>You can begin with the Introductory prayer to tune in. Then… just start talking to Him. As St Josemaría teaches, it is all a matter of getting the conversation started: “You don’t know how to pray? Put yourself in the presence of God, and as soon as you have said, “Lord, I don’t know how to pray!” you can be sure you’ve already begun.”</p>
  <p><b>— What should I do then? </b>You can read the Gospel and the comments of the iPray. They can trigger a topic for your prayer. But remember: the most important part of your prayer is not written in this booklet. The main part is what you say to Him and, especially, what He says to you.</p>
  <p><b>— What should I talk about? </b>About everything! “About Him, about yourself—joys, sorrows, successes and failures, noble ambitions, daily worries, weaknesses! And acts of thanksgiving and petitions—and Love and reparation” (St Josemaría).</p>
  <p><b>— How do I finish? </b>At the end of your prayer you can ask Our Lady for help; you should also give thanks to Our Lord for that dialogue. You can finish, if you want, with the Closing prayer.</p>

	<h3>Introductory prayer</h3>
	<p>
	My Lord and my God, I firmly believe that you are here, that you see me, that you hear me. I adore you with profound reverence, I ask you for pardon of my sins, and the grace to make this time of prayer fruitful. My Mother Immaculate, Saint Joseph my father and lord, my guardian angel, intercede for me.
	</p>

	<h3>Closing prayer</h3>
	<p>
	I give you thanks, my God, for the good resolutions, affections and inspirations you have communicated to me in this meditation. I ask you for help to put them into effect. My Mother Immaculate, Saint Joseph my father and lord, my guardian angel, intercede for me.
	</p>

</body>
</html>
