<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <title>Lent</title>
  <link rel="stylesheet" href="../Styles/stylesheet.css" type="text/css" />
</head>
<body>
  	<div id="contentDay_0">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">10th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">Ash Wednesday</div>
	<div class="quote"> Mt 6:1-6, 16-18</div>
	<div class="gospel">Jesus said to his disciples: "Beware of practising your piety before men in order to be seen by them; for then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. Thus, ... when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites; for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by men. Truly, I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your Father who is in secret; and your Father who sees in secret will reward you".</div>
	<div><p>Today we start Lent, a time of preparation for Easter. The word “Lent” comes from an old English word which means “springtime”. It reminds us of ‘spring cleaning’ and the new life evident in nature at this time of the year. Lent is a time of special grace for us when we can do some spring cleaning in our lives and enjoy new life as a result. Sometimes people ask, ‘What are you doing for Lent?’ And they expect an answer like: ‘I’m giving up chocolate…’ There is only one thing that we should all strive to give up during Lent – sin!</p>
<p>Lent is like a stool which has three legs: prayer, sacrifice and charity. If one of the legs is missing, Lent cannot stand. So our Lenten resolutions should be in these three areas. Maybe we do not need to pray more but to pray better, to offer our usual mortifications but with a firmer intention; to be more generous when we give, and always give with a smile... Jesus, help me to be generous this Lent.</p>
<p>“Lent should suggest to us these basic questions: Am I advancing in my faithfulness to Christ, in my desire for holiness, in a generous apostolate in my daily life, in my ordinary work among my colleagues? Each one of us, silently, should answer these questions, and we will see that we need to change again if Christ is to live in us, if Jesus’ image is to be reflected clearly in our behaviour” (St Josemaría).</p>
<p>Think: What can I do during Lent that will make a big difference to my prayer life?</p>
<p>Don't forget now, at the beginning of Lent, to ask Our Lady for help to put your resolutions in practice.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_1">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">11th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Lk 9:22-25</div>
	<div class="gospel">Jesus said to his disciples: "The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected by the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and on the third day be raised." And he said to all, "If any man would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it; and whoever loses his life for my sake, he will save it. For what does it profit a man if he gains the whole world and loses or forfeits himself?</div>
	<div><p>It is very plain and clear: there is just one way to follow Jesus: with the Cross. Trying to follow You, Lord, while avoiding sacrifice would be like a bird trying to fly without wings. It’s not that Christians like pain or suffering in itself; but that they recognise it as a means to improve.</p>
<p>Bosco Gutierrez was an architect who was kidnapped for 257 days. He underwent all kinds of sufferings locked in a tiny room without windows and with no verbal contact with anyone for months. One day his captors saw that he had given up on himself and offered him a whiskey. He loved whiskey! Slowly, in order to enjoy it to the full, he smelt it and ran the glass along his unshaven dirty face. Then he heard an internal prompt: “Give up the whiskey! Give me something that is under your control.” He hesitated for a moment… and poured it on the floor. That day everything changed for him: “That day I won my first battle”.</p>
<p>We have many battles to win this Lent. Let’s be practical and choose useful mortifications: let’s wake up straightaway, eat more of what we do not like, and less of what we like; do the dishes, smile at someone we may find annoying, avoid complaining, about anything, to anyone; tidy our room, do the jobs we don't like before the ones we find easier, rather than putting them off; accept what we have been told without answering back, and many others...</p>
<p>Lord, through the intercession of Your Mother, help me to take up my cross, to the bitter end, no matter how bitter it is. I will try to make a list of sacrifices that I intend to fulfil so as to be close to You throughout Lent.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_2">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">12th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Mt 9:14-15</div>
	<div class="gospel">Then the disciples of John came to him, saying, "Why do we and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?" And Jesus said to them, "Can the wedding guests mourn as long as the bridegroom is with them? The days will come, when the bridegroom is taken away from them, and then they will fast.</div>
	<div><p>There is a time for celebration – such as a wedding – and a time for mortification – such as Lent. Today is the third day of Lent; let’s check how my mortification is going so far. Do I have a list of sacrifices? Am I following it? Can I improve or be more consistent in my sacrifice? Let’s be really generous!</p>
<p>In terms of generosity in sacrifice, let’s look at Jesus on the Cross. He didn’t accept the Cross half-heartedly and nor should we. Besides, mortification doesn’t harm your health; if anything it makes you stronger. Carthusian monks offer many sacrifices every day, among them, not eating meat on any day of the year. When Pope Urban V (1310-1370) was told about this harsh diet, he decided it must stop because it would give the monks health problems. Ten Carthusians were sent to visit the Pope and explain their sacrifices; the youngest of them was already over 90 years old. Another approached the Pope walking without any support and told him: “I‘m over 100 years old... What do you mean by health?” The Pope then understood, and the monks were allowed to continue with their diet which has remained unchanged for 1000 years!</p>
<p>There is no holiness without mortification. Jesus was very clear: "If any man would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me.” It is necessary for personal holiness and for the salvation of others. As Jesus said to St Faustina: “You will save more souls through prayer and suffering than will a missionary through his teachings and sermons alone." St. Philip Neri summarised it well when he taught “without mortification nothing can be done.”</p>
<p>My Mother, help me to be generous in my sacrifice to be close to Jesus and to you on Mount Calvary.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_3">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">13th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Lk 5:27-32</div>
	<div class="gospel">Levi made him a great feast in his house; and there was a large company of tax collectors and others sitting at table with them. And the Pharisees and their scribes murmured against his disciples, saying, "Why do you eat and drink with tax collectors and sinners?" And Jesus answered them, "Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick; I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance."</div>
	<div><p>Jesus came to seek those who need conversion and, especially during this Jubilee Year of Mercy, He wants your help and mine to reach out to them. We can help others to realise that Jesus has given His Life for all of them. No one can be left behind. We are apostles and there are many souls to save. One of the reasons why we offer more sacrifices during Lent is precisely to pray that many sinners receive the grace of conversion.</p>
<p>In the apparitions of Our Lady at Fatima in 1917 she insisted: "Men must amend their lives, and ask pardon for their sins... They must no longer offend Our Lord, Who is already so much offended." Sr. Lucia wrote: "What has remained most deeply imprinted on my heart is the prayer of our heavenly Mother begging us not to offend Almighty God any more, Who is already so much offended." This is a good resolution for Lent. But for people to amend their lives, Our Lady asked the three children: ”Pray, pray very much and make a sacrifice for sinners, because many souls are going to hell because no-one offers sacrifices for them.” The three children started to look for ways to mortify themselves. Lucia found a rope one day and suggested it be cut into three pieces so each of them could wear it continuously around their waists. Pleasing as it was to God, Our Lady had to ask them not to use the rope at night, for they couldn’t sleep. They also gave their lunches to poor children they met along the way, or would spend all the daylight hours without drinking a single drop of water.</p>
<p>The three children were aged 10, 9 and 7! Our Lady was well pleased with their sacrifices.</p>
<p>Would she be pleased with yours?</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_4">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">14th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">3rd Sunday of St Joseph</div>
	<div class="quote"> Lk 4:1-13</div>
	<div class="gospel">And Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan, and was led by the Spirit for forty days in the wilderness, tempted by the devil. And he ate nothing in those days; and when they were ended, he was hungry. The devil said to him, "If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread." And Jesus answered him, "It is written, 'Man shall not live by bread alone.'" … And when the devil had ended every temptation, he departed from him until an opportune time.</div>
	<div><p>It is always a great relief to see You, Lord, going through the same things we all have to go through. You were a perfect man, but you did not ‘cheat’: You suffered all that we suffered and much more. You even let yourself suffer temptations, just like us. You, Lord, are like us in all things except sin. You can exact nothing from human beings that You have not exacted from Yourself.</p>
<p>This is why, Jesus, it makes us so happy to see You overcoming the enemy. Because You are a Man and You have defeated the devil. When a football team is really good, people can start to think of it as unbeatable and everyone dreads having to play them. Until, one day, the invincible football team is defeated, and from then on, no one thinks they are invincible anymore, for the once-dreaded enemy has been beaten; and so, they think... We can beat it too!</p>
<p>To try to overcome temptations without Your assistance, Lord, would be madness; it would be like a car trying to win a race with four flat tyres. As St Paul says: “If God is for us, who is against us?” (Rom 8:31). Who could fight against us if we fight side by side with You, Lord? For You have overcome the devil, and now we know that You can beat him again and again, helping us when we go through temptation. We will never fear him; he should fear us, for we don’t fight on our own, but with You.</p>
<p>Mary, my Mother, I won’t fear temptation anymore. But if you see me in times of trial and I forget to ask for help, please remind me to turn to your Son and ask Him to fight my battles with me; then, with your help, Mother, and the Grace of your Son, my struggle will be a battle like that of David and Goliath: I will be invincible, for Jesus is The Invincible One.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_5">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">15th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Mt 25:31-46</div>
	<div class="gospel">"When the Son of man comes in his glory, ... He will say to those at his right hand, 'Come, O blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world; for I was hungry and you gave me food, I was thirsty and you gave me drink, I was a stranger and you welcomed me, I was naked and you clothed me, I was sick and you visited me, I was in prison and you came to me ... Truly, I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my brethren, you did it to me.'"</div>
	<div><p>Lent is a time for charity. And charity is something we should pray about. When you talk to Jesus about your family members, your friends... you discover things that you can do for them. If we don’t pray for them, we spend our lives missing opportunities to practise charity with people that need us. I can imagine You, Lord, smiling when You told your followers about the Last Day, thinking of the millions of billions of acts of charity that people would do for Your sake until the end of time.</p>
<p>One day Bl Teresa of Calcutta was interviewed for a TV programme. Before the interview, as an introduction, they recorded her performing some tasks and caring for some lepers. The wounds left by leprosy can be very repulsive in the final stages. But Bl Teresa was washing the leper with the same affection that a mother uses with her baby. The reporter, unable to restrain her repugnance, said aloud: ‘I wouldn’t do that for a million dollars!’ Bl Teresa looked at her peacefully and answered: ‘Neither would I!’</p>
<p>Because she didn’t do that for any other reason than for Christ. She knew that every time she did something for a sick person, she was doing it to Christ because she was doing it for Christ.</p>
<p>Jesus: I imagine Your look and the expression on Your face when I meet You at the end of my life and You see all that I did for others. Then You will smile at me and Your lovely voice will say, in front of all the angels and my Mother: 'Come, O blessed of my Father…’</p>
<p>Holy Mary, our Hope, Help of Christians, pray for us that we may grow in Charity during this Lent.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_6">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">16th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Mt 6:7-15</div>
	<div class="gospel">"And in praying do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do; for they think that they will be heard for their many words. Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him. Pray then like this: Our Father who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name.  Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, On earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread; And forgive us our debts, As we also have forgiven our debtors; And lead us not into temptation, But deliver us from evil. For if you forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father also will forgive you; but if you do not forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.</div>
	<div><p>Today’s Gospel reminds us that prayer is one of the legs of Lent, along with sacrifice and charity. During Lent we are offering sacrifices for the conversion of sinners. We are charitable towards others as we considered yesterday, because everything that we do for them we do for Our Lord. Now we do the same when we pray. Jesus told us to say: Our Father, and not simply Father; and in the four last petitions we say: "give us ... forgive us ... lead us not ... deliver us". For God loves it when we are united in prayer, when we pray together and we pray for each other, as a family.</p>
<p>During Lent you can go slowly over the Lord’s Prayer, the Our Father. In her autobiography, St. Thérèse of Lisieux says “Sometimes when I am in such a state of spiritual dryness that not a single good thought occurs to me, I say very slowly the ‘Our Father,’ or the ‘Hail Mary,’ and these prayers suffice to take me out of myself, and wonderfully refresh me.” Let’s ask ourselves: How many times do I pray these prayers every day, and how many times do I not pay attention to what I am saying? Pray the Lord's Prayer today with St. Thérèse, slowly, to get the most out of it, rather than rattling it off on auto-pilot, as we all do sometimes!</p>
<p>Mary, my Mother, pray with me so that I may follow St. Josemaría’s advice: “Slowly. —Consider what you are saying, who is saying it and to whom. For that hurried talk, without time for reflection, is just noise, the clatter of tin cans. And with Saint Teresa, I will tell you that, however much you work your lips, I do not call it prayer.”</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_7">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">17th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">The Seven Holy Founders of the Servite Order</div>
	<div class="quote"> Lk 11:29-32</div>
	<div class="gospel">When the crowds were increasing, he began to say, "This generation is an evil generation; it seeks a sign, but no sign shall be given to it except the sign of Jonah. For as Jonah became a sign to the men of Nineveh, so will the Son of man be to this generation ... The men of Nineveh will arise at the judgment with this generation and condemn it; for they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here.</div>
	<div><p>God needed someone to preach in Nineveh, and decided that Jonah was ‘the man for the job’. But you know the story, don’t you? The instructions were simple: Set out for the great city of Nineveh, and preach against it. As a matter of fact, Nineveh was an idolatrous, proud, and ruthless nation which had long been a threat to Israel. So Jonah, being an Israelite, decided to put as much distance as he could between himself and them. Whatever happened to Nineveh, Jonah would not be there to see it. So he fled in the opposite direction to Nineveh. He got on a boat to go to Tarshish. God has His plans, Jonah may have thought: but I have mine...</p>
<p>God loves us; He created us and knows what we can do. We can be certain that He will never ask you for ‘more’ than you can give... But He will never ask you for ‘less’. Because it is not just about you. It’s about the many souls who depend on you. Nineveh could have been condemned if God had not gone after Jonah to ‘convince’ him (in a very persuasive way) that the people of Nineveh needed him. When Jonah eventually complied and did what God had asked for, the result was impressive: the people of Nineveh converted and turned to God.</p>
<p>What would have become of those thousands of people if Jonah had not come back? What will become of your relatives and friends who may be far from God if you do not do anything to help them?</p>
<p>There are many souls who depend on my generosity in following my vocation. Mary, Refuge of sinners, I beg your assistance to help those souls, and if ever I run away from those who need me, please come and fetch me!</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_8">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">18th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Mt 7:7-12</div>
	<div class="gospel">"Ask, and it will be given you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you. For every one who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened. Or what man of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will give him a serpent? If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him!</div>
	<div><p>Everyone who asks receives. Everyone means everyone. And in order to explain it, Our Lord cites the example of a good father who gives his children what they need. If fathers do that on earth, Jesus teaches: how much more will your Father God give good things to those who ask Him! Have you ever prayed slowly about those words: “how much more”?</p>
<p>But sometimes we ask God for things and either nothing changes or the situation gets worse! True. What happens to us sometimes is what Coldplay explains in the song ‘Fix You’: ‘When you try your best but you don't succeed. When you get what you want but not what you need’… Sometimes people get what they want… but not what they need. God, as the best of fathers, gives His children what they need; not what they want. That’s the way He has to ‘fix you’ from the effects of original sin and when everything goes wrong.</p>
<p>Remember when your mum wouldn’t give you fizzy drinks before bed or sweets before lunch? Because she loved you, she didn’t give you what you wanted, but rather what was best for you. God is not a ‘vending machine’ in which you insert prayers to get what you fancy. He’s a Father Who only gives the best. And so, our best prayer is to ask: Your Will be done, for that is the best for me, always.</p>
<p>Holy Mary, my good Mother, help me to have always on my lips your words to St Gabriel: “Be it done unto me according to thy word”, because asking for what God has in store for me is asking for the best!</p>
<p>“Shame on human laziness, for God’s desire to give is greater than our desire to receive" (St Augustine).</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_9">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">19th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Mt 5:20-26</div>
	<div class="gospel">"You have heard that it was said to the men of old, 'You shall not kill; and whoever kills shall be liable to judgment.' Everyone who is angry with his brother shall be liable to judgment; whoever insults his brother shall be liable to the council, and whoever says, 'You fool!' shall be liable to the hell of fire. So if you are offering your gift at the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar and go; first be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift.”</div>
	<div><p>Few things wound the heart of a father more than seeing that his children don’t love one another. And few sins wound the Divine Heart of our Father God more than bitterness among His children. During Lent we try to grow in Charity, which is always the most important virtue. So much so, that Jesus warns us: if ever you come to offer anything to Me, make sure that you are at peace with my other children first. If you aren’t, then “leave your gift there before the altar and go”, for I will not accept your offering until you are reconciled to your brother.</p>
<p>Some people think that only Cain, with his blood-stained hands, would be forbidden to offer up other sacrifices. But there are so many ways to harm others! Indifference, scorn, insensitiveness, laughing at the mistakes of the others, indiscretion, rudeness, ungratefulness, sarcasm, irony, gossip, bearing grudges, impatience, and so many other names for selfishness...</p>
<p>During Lent there are lots of suitable sacrifices to offer up, but remember: over and above any sacrifice… Charity! It would be useless to give up chocolate and be angry all the time, talking back to everyone. ‘Keep eating chocolate, please’, your friends will advise you, ‘and leave us alone!’ What’s the point of fasting in Lent if you become insufferable at home? ‘Stop fasting, please’, your family will tell you, ‘we can’t cope with your fasting!’ So first of all, choose sacrifices that those around you would like.</p>
<p>Ask Our Lord for help to always be charitable towards everyone, so that, at any time of our life, we’re ready to stand before His altar.</p>
<p>Holy Mary, Mother of Mercy, pray for me!</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_10">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">20th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Mt 5:43-48</div>
	<div class="gospel">"I say to you, Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven; for he makes his sun rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward have you? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? ... You, therefore, must be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect”</div>
	<div><p>To hold a grudge is like building a prison and locking oneself inside. We have to ask Jesus for the gift of being able to love everyone, no matter what they do or think or say. That is to be like our heavenly Father: Perfect in Love. St John of the Cross has given us a great piece of advice: “Where there is no love, put love—and you will draw out love.”</p>
<p>If you love those who love you, what reward have you? That is very easy! But to love those who despise you, who scorn you, who insult you... That is very ‘virtuous’! In 1993 Cardinal Joseph Bernardin was falsely accused by a young fellow of improper conduct. The story was spun by the media and a big campaign flared up against him. He confessed later that his internal suffering during that time would hardly be endurable were it not for his faith and knowledge of his innocence. After three months of ordeal and media persecution, his accuser admitted that the accusation was false. Soon after, Stephen (the accuser) was dying from AIDS in a hospital bed. Cardinal Bernardin went to visit him. The poor man apologised for the wrongs he had committed against the Cardinal. Bernardin forgave him immediately and with affection, becoming concerned only with Stephen’s spiritual health and making sure that he could prepare himself properly for his death.</p>
<p>This has been the example of the saints. As soon as he managed, St John Paul II went to visit Ali Agca, the man who shot him. There, in his prison, Ali Agca was forgiven and ended up kissing the hand of the Pope he had tried to kill just a few weeks before.</p>
<p>My Lord, through the intercession of Your Mother, help me to forgive everyone… everything… always… and to bring You those who offend me in any way.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_11">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">21st FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">4th Sunday of St Joseph</div>
	<div class="quote"> Lk 9:28b-36</div>
	<div class="gospel">Jesus took with him Peter and John and James, and went up on the mountain to pray. And as he was praying, the appearance of his countenance was altered, and his raiment became dazzling white. And behold, two men talked with him, Moses and Elijah, who appeared in glory and spoke of his departure, which he was to accomplish at Jerusalem. Now Peter and those who were with him were heavy with sleep, and when they wakened they saw his glory and the two men who stood with him. And as the men were parting from him, Peter said to Jesus, "Master, it is well that we are here; let us make three booths, one for you and one for Moses and one for Elijah"—not knowing what he said. As he said this, a cloud came and overshadowed them; and they were afraid as they entered the cloud. And a voice came out of the cloud, saying, "This is my Son, my Chosen; listen to him!" And when the voice had spoken, Jesus was found alone. And they kept silence and told no one in those days anything of what they had seen.</div>
	<div><p>How good it is to be with You, Lord; and to be able to talk to You as Elijah and Moses did, face-to-face! And we still listen to the echoes of the Voice of the Father giving us a commandment: listen to him!</p>
<p>How I would love to listen to You, Lord, as Moses did, as Elijah, and Peter and James and John...! And to Peter, who did not know what to say we can answer: “Say nothing! It is time to keep silent and contemplate”. Silence is an important part of our prayer. Because if we talk, we don’t listen. And prayer is a dialogue, not a speech.</p>
<p>Some people panic when there is silence. Like the boy who reluctantly accompanied his parents to a concert of classical music. In the middle of a symphony there were three (just three!) seconds of silence broken by the voice of the boy shouting: ‘Now… what?! I can’t hear anything!’ No one had explained to him that silence is an important part of music.</p>
<p>Silence is also an important part of prayer. Don’t panic if you spend a few minutes in silence. Ask Our Lady to be able to learn from her: That’s what she did in Bethlehem, in Nazareth many times, and specially beside the Cross. We need to find God, and God cannot be found in noise and restlessness. God is the friend of silence (Bl Teresa of Calcutta).</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_12">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">22nd FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">The Chair of St Peter</div>
	<div class="quote"> Mt 16:13-19</div>
	<div class="gospel">Now when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, "Who do men say that the Son of man is?" And they said, "Some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets." He said to them, "But who do you say that I am?" Simon Peter replied, "You are the Christ, the Son of the living God." And Jesus answered him, "Blessed are you, Simon Bar-Jona! For flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the powers of death shall not prevail against it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven."</div>
	<div><p>Today we celebrate the feast of the Chair of St Peter which is not merely about a piece of furniture. The seat of the bishop is the Chair or “cathedra” (origin of the word cathedral, a church that has the cathedra of the bishop). It signifies the authority of Peter. In the apse of the Basilica of St Peter you can see the chair, a bronze sculpture of Bernini (17th century). On top of it you see the Dove symbolizing the Holy Spirit who inspires the Pope.</p>
<p>Why did Jesus choose Peter? Only He knows. God didn’t choose a wise man who knew the Scriptures and who could write, for Peter probably couldn’t. He didn’t choose a man of easy speech who could be persuasive when preaching the Gospel. He didn’t choose a man with influence, a rich man, a politician...</p>
<p>Jesus needed a strong man, a rock on which to build His Church. A rock that serves as a foundation doesn’t need to be beautiful; just strong. Peter wasn’t perfect when Jesus chose him, but his faith and love would become strong enough to make the Church stand firm. Over the centuries many strong empires have fought against this Rock. They disappeared but the Church stands erect. Whoever fights against this Rock “shall not prevail.”</p>
<p>Stronger than Superman, Spiderman or Batman… is our Fisherman!</p>
<p>Holy Mary, our Hope, Queen of the Apostles and Mother of the Church, pray for us!</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_13">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">23rd FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Mt 23:1-12</div>
	<div class="gospel">Then Jesus said to the crowds and to his disciples, "The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat; so practice and observe whatever they tell you, but not what they do; for they preach, but do not practice ... They do all their deeds to be seen by men ... He who is greatest among you shall be your servant; whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.</div>
	<div><p>Humility is indispensable to follow Christ. The best example of humility is Jesus Himself: being God, He became Man for us; and later, He became a Host of Bread. Who could ever humble himself so much? The second best example of humility is His Mother: being the only woman who could rightly boast about herself, she recognised that all the good in her was a gift from God. The third example of humility is St Joseph: being a man gifted beyond comparison, he never let himself become the centre of attention. Saints are humble people who know how to remain in the background and let people see God instead.</p>
<p>The problem with the scribes and Pharisees was that they loved to be seen, recognised and praised for their deeds and talents. They wanted to be the centre of attention. There is a saying in Spanish that could describe this kind of person well: ‘They want to be the bride in all the weddings, the baby in all the baptisms and the dead in all the funerals.’</p>
<p>Holiness is just the opposite: you see? Holiness and humility are proportionate. In the words of St Josemaría, the passion of the saints is ‘to hide and disappear. That only Jesus could be seen’. In the lifetime of the Holy Curé of Ars, St John Mary Vianney, people came from distant places to listen to his homilies. Elsewhere in France at the same time was another famous preacher who also attracted many people with his brilliant sermons. One day someone asked this preacher which of them was the better preacher. ‘Most certainly he is!’, answered the man: ‘For when people listen to my homilies they say: “How good is this preacher!”, but when they listen to Vianney they say: “How good is God!”’</p>
<p>Mary, my Mother, help me to learn from you the virtue of humility.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_14">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">24th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Mt 20:17-28</div>
	<div class="gospel">Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came up to him, with her sons, and kneeling before him she asked him for something. And he said to her, "What do you want?" She said to him, "Command that these two sons of mine may sit, one at your right hand and one at your left, in your kingdom." But Jesus answered, "You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am to drink?" They said to him, "We are able." He said to them, "You will drink my cup, but to sit at my right hand and at my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father." ... whoever would be great among you must be your servant, and whoever would be first among you must be your slave; even as the Son of man came not to be served but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many."</div>
	<div><p>Jesus teaches His disciples that the only ambition they should have is the ambition to serve. In fact, He taught this not just with words, but with deeds: they could never forget the God-made–man washing their feet. We too should always keep that picture in mind when we don't feel like serving the people around us. Lent is a time of service which is charity, and the disciples of Jesus follow His footsteps and example.</p>
<p>We need to make a resolution to serve always and to serve everyone. And the first way to serve souls is by fulfilling our duties. Work is service. And to work diligently and with generosity is the best way to serve others. The journalist André Frossard said that the only ‘known’ means to prevent St John Paul II from working was ‘general anaesthesia’. Nothing else could stop the Pope fulfilling his duties. And when someone recommended that he take care of himself and rest a while, he answered: “My health is not important. My holiness is. After one Pope there comes another Pope. Let me fulfil my duty. “</p>
<p>“How I like that word: service! To serve my king and, through him, all those who have been redeemed by his blood. I really wish we Christians knew how to serve, for only by serving can we know and love Christ and make him known and loved” (St Josemaría).</p>
<p>Mother of Christ, Handmaid of the Lord, teach me to serve as you served your cousin St Elizabeth – with haste –, as you did at the wedding at Cana, as you serve your children now.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_15">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">25th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Lk 16:19-31</div>
	<div class="gospel">“There was a rich man, who was clothed in purple and fine linen and who feasted sumptuously every day. And at his gate lay a poor man named Lazarus, full of sores, who desired to be fed with what fell from the rich man's table; moreover the dogs came and licked his sores. The poor man died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's bosom. The rich man also died and was buried; and in Hades, being in torment, he lifted up his eyes, and saw Abraham far off and Lazarus in his bosom. And he called out, 'Father Abraham, have mercy upon me, and send Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue; for I am in anguish in this flame.' But Abraham said, 'Son, remember that you in your lifetime received your good things, and Lazarus in like manner evil things; but now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish. ... And he said, 'Then I beg you, father, to send him to my father's house, for I have five brothers, so that he may warn them, lest they also come into this place of torment.' But Abraham said, 'They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.' And he said, 'No, father Abraham; but if someone goes to them from the dead, they will repent.' He said to him, 'If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be convinced if someone should rise from the dead.'"</div>
	<div><p>This well-known parable of Our Lord brings to our prayer today the importance of omissions. This rich man didn’t fall into Hades (Hell) because he used to scorn Lazarus or because he became rich taking advantage of the poor or because he kicked the poor out of his property. We can imagine the rich man at the Last Judgment, being told that he can’t enter Heaven. He would protest saying: ‘But why? What did I do? I didn’t do anything!’ And we imagine the devastating answer of God: ‘Precisely!’</p>
<p>St Josemaría used to say that Hell is paved with sins of omission. Often we don’t commit these sins because we decide not to help. Usually it is because we didn’t notice that they needed our help, material or otherwise: time, encouragement, comfort, appreciation, understanding, a smile… Every day people need our help. How many times we can miss opportunities to help others if we are not attentive! We then become like the rich man in the parable: he never saw the needs of Lazarus at his door – he was too busy thinking about himself. Holy Mary, our Hope, Handmaid of the Lord, pray for us!</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_16">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">26th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Mt 21:33-43, 45-46</div>
	<div class="gospel">"There was a householder who planted a vineyard, and set a hedge around it, and dug a wine press in it, and built a tower, and let it out to tenants, and went into another country. When the season of fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the tenants, to get his fruit; and the tenants took his servants and beat one, killed another, and stoned another. Again he sent other servants, more than the first; and they did the same to them. Afterward he sent his son to them, saying, 'They will respect my son.' But when the tenants saw the son, they said to themselves, 'This is the heir; come, let us kill him and have his inheritance.' And they took him and cast him out of the vineyard, and killed him."</div>
	<div><p>This is called “breach of contract”. When God gave them the vineyard, He gave them a mission: to produce grapes. Vineyard and mission came together. The tenants liked the vineyard; it was kitted out with everything they needed to produce fruit. But they rejected their mission. So they decided to keep the vineyard and its fruit for themselves.</p>
<p>They didn’t want to obey. They preferred to be their own masters, ‘appropriating’ something that wasn’t theirs. The same can happen in our lives. God has given us everything we need to bear fruit. He has given us our lives, our family, our talents, our formation… and our mission. But some love all that so much that, instead of being grateful for it, they decide to keep it for themselves: ‘It’s my life!’, they say, ‘I do with it what I like.’ And they guard it jealously, taking hold of it as a child grasps his ice cream and licks it slowly with a look that says: ‘It’s mine; only mine!’</p>
<p>But we know that it is not. Life, and all it brings with it, is given by God. We are tenants and have to render fruit. We have been given life, family, friends, talents, formation… but also a mission! That was the problem of the rich young man (Mk 10:17-31), do you remember him? “He went away sorrowful” (v. 22) says the Gospel. He kept his possessions… but lost his joy, his enthusiasm, his mission, his Lord…</p>
<p>“Cast yourself with confidence into the arms of God. And be very sure of this, that if he wants anything of you he will fit you for your work and give you strength to do it.” (St Phillip Neri)</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_17">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">27th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Lk 15:1-3, 11-32</div>
	<div class="gospel">"There was a man who had two sons; and the younger of them said to his father, 'Father, give me the share of property that falls to me.' And he divided his living between them. Not many days later, the younger son gathered all he had and took his journey into a far country, and there he squandered his property in loose living. And when he had spent everything, a great famine arose in that country, and he began to be in want. So he went and joined himself to one of the citizens of that country, who sent him into his fields to feed swine ... But when he came to himself he said, 'How many of my father's hired servants have bread enough and to spare, but I perish here with hunger! I will arise and go to my father, and I will say to him, "Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you; I am no longer worthy to be called your son; treat me as one of your hired servants."' And he arose and came to his father. But while he was yet at a distance, his father saw him and had compassion, and ran and embraced him and kissed him…”</div>
	<div><p>There is common agreement that this is one of the most beautiful parables of Our Lord. Because not all of us are always moved by seed, darnel, fish, leaven, fig trees, good soil or lost sheep. But all of us are moved by this father because we have all been and are prodigal sons.</p>
<p>It is never too late to come back. Jacques Fesch (1930 – 1957) was a young French lad who gave up a position at his father's bank, lived the life of a playboy, left his wife and their daughter, and fathered an illegitimate son with another woman. Disillusioned with his life, he decided to rob a money changer of gold coins. During the escape he killed a police officer; he was arrested and condemned to death by guillotine. At first Fesch was indifferent and mocked his lawyer's Catholic faith. However, after a year in prison, he experienced a profound conversion and bitterly regretted his crime. He asked for forgiveness and started to pray, attend Mass and go regularly to confession as well as help his mates get close to God. He kept a spiritual journal. His last journal entry was "In five hours, I will see Jesus!" When his journal was published after his death he became an inspiration to many. His process of beatification is now open. He was an example of repentance and redemption. It’s never too late to come back to God! Holy Mary, our Hope, Refuge of sinners, pray for us.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_18">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">28th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">5th Sunday of St Joseph</div>
	<div class="quote"> Lk 13:1-9</div>
	<div class="gospel">There were some present at that very time who told him of the Galileans whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices. And he answered them, "Do you think that these Galileans were worse sinners than all the other Galileans, because they suffered thus? I tell you, No; but unless you repent you will all likewise perish."</div>
	<div><p>When a priest suggested that a certain man go to confession, the man replied that he had no sins to confess because ‘he hadn’t killed anyone’. ‘My friend, answered the priest, ‘it is not only murderers who should go to confession. There are also those who are liars and gossipers, people who are lustful, lazy, vain, proud, ill-tempered, gluttonous, imprudent, dishonest, uncharitable…’ ‘Stop it! Father, stop it!, interrupted the man: ‘Bless me father for I have sinned…’</p>
<p>Everyone has sins and so everyone needs repentance. Another priest came across a parishioner in the street and reminded him that he should go to confession ‘from time to time’. The man answered: ‘But I don’t have any sins, father.’ ‘There are two kinds of people who have no sins’, answered the priest: ‘Children and madmen. Which one are you?’</p>
<p>The first step to conversion is recognising our own sins. God, in his Mercy, is always ready to forgive our sins, but He needs to find in us a repentant heart. As St Augustine put it: “You accuse yourself: God excuses you. You excuse yourself: God accuses you”. But it is hard to admit our mistakes in front of another person, even if that person is a priest behind a grille.</p>
<p>Prussian king Frederick the Great was once touring a Berlin prison. One after another, when he asked inmates the reason for their imprisonment, they fell on their knees proclaiming their innocence: ‘There is a mistake’, ‘I am innocent’, ‘I didn’t do what they said…’ Suddenly, at the question of the king, “why are you here?”, a prisoner replied: “Armed robbery.”. Surprised, the king asked: “Are you guilty?” “Yes indeed, I deserve my punishment”, said the man. The king then summoned the jailer and ordered him, “Release this guilty wretch at once. Otherwise he will corrupt all the fine innocent people who live in this prison.” Holy Mary, give me the courage to recognise my guilt.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_19">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">29th FEBRUARY<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Lk 4:24-30</div>
	<div class="gospel">Jesus said to them, "Truly, I say to you, no prophet is acceptable in his own country ... there were many lepers in Israel in the time of the prophet Elisha; and none of them was cleansed, but only Naaman the Syrian." When they heard this, all in the synagogue were filled with wrath. And they rose up and put him out of the city, and led him to the brow of the hill on which their city was built, that they might throw him down headlong. But passing through the midst of them he went away.</div>
	<div><p>Many fellow Nazarenes didn’t believe Jesus to be a prophet. ‘Because if You ‘were’ a prophet, they might say, ‘we would know’. In other words these people were saying something like: ‘We decide who is and who isn’t a prophet here’.</p>
<p>Imagine the ‘Poets’ Society of Stratford-upon-Avon’ suing Shakespeare for publishing his work without their approval: it would have been ridiculous! The people of Nazareth were about to throw Jesus down the cliff just because He was chosen by God without their permission. Perhaps they told Jesus: ‘Listen, it is fine if You perform miracles here... we love that stuff... but do not try to lecture us, because we know You are the Son of Joseph, the artisan’.</p>
<p>But Jesus’ attitude here is remarkable. He didn’t waste a second trying to argue or convince them. Their problem wasn’t a lack of faith but an excess of pride. There is a classic Greek saying that reads: "The worst deaf person is the one who doesn't want to hear." Until they get rid of their pride they will never receive the supernatural virtue of Faith.</p>
<p>Charles de Foucauld was a young rich playboy who had done whatever he wanted throughout his whole life. He even had a lover he didn’t intend to marry. One day he met a priest, Fr. Huvelin, and asked him to explain the Catholic Faith to him. The priest, instead of explaining anything, “made me kneel down”, wrote Foucauld, “made me go to confession, and sent me to communion right away.” Blessed Charles de Foucauld, as he is known now, could then understand the Faith. Without grace, how difficult it is to be humble; without humility, how difficult it is to know the truth! Let’s ask Our Lady for the grace that many may come to the Truth in this Jubilee Year of Mercy.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_20">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">1st MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Mt 18:21-35</div>
	<div class="gospel">Then Peter came up and said to him, "Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? As many as seven times?" Jesus said to him, "I do not say to you seven times, but seventy times seven.</div>
	<div><p>Jesus tells the parable of the man who was forgiven his debt by his master, but he didn’t forgive a fellow debtor, and in the end his own debt is claimed back again because he didn’t have mercy on his fellow servant. “So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you, if you do not forgive your brother from your heart."</p>
<p>How many times we ask God: ‘Forgive us our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us’. We do not ask Him to forgive ‘all my trespasses’, or ‘my trespasses according to Your Mercy’, or ‘because You are Good’. We persistently say in other words: Forgive me if I forgive, but if I do not forgive... please, do not forgive me!</p>
<p>John Gualberto was a member of the Visdomini family of Florentine nobility. On Good Friday, 1003, he was entering Florence accompanied by armed followers, when in a narrow lane he came upon a man who had killed his brother. The criminal had no escape. In a sudden outburst, the poor man knelt down and said to John Gualberto: "Today is Good Friday. For Christ Who died for us on the Cross: spare my life!" Ignoring his plea John was about to strike the fatal blow when the man muttered: "Jesus, Son of God, at least you forgive me." Upon hearing this, John threw the sword away, raised the murderer and embraced him saying: "For Christ's sake, for His blood poured out on the Cross for us, I forgive you."</p>
<p>Moved by what had happened, John Gualberto dismissed his followers and entered the Benedictine Church at San Miniato to pray. As he was praying in front of a wooden Crucifix, the figure on the Crucifix bowed its head to him in recognition of his generosity. John Gualberto entered that same Benedictine monastery and eventually became St John Gualberto.</p>
<p>Forgiveness opened for him the way to conversion and holiness. Our Lady, Mother of Mercy, intercede for us so that we learn to forgive.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_21">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">2nd MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Mt 5:17-19</div>
	<div class="gospel">"Think not that I have come to abolish the law and the prophets; I have come not to abolish them but to fulfil them. For truly, I say to you, till heaven and earth pass away, not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the law until all is accomplished. Whoever then relaxes one of the least of these commandments and teaches men so, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven; but he who does them and teaches them shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.</div>
	<div><p>How easy it is to water down the Gospel and make it a bit less demanding! How easy it would be to get disciples if you only taught the nice bits of the Gospel and took out any reference to the Cross or the demands of becoming a real disciple of Jesus! But the Gospel is the Word of God: the whole Gospel, and no-one has the right to change so much as one letter of it.</p>
<p>An African bishop returned to his home town – which was mostly non-Christian – soon after ordination. In the welcome speech, the people expressed how happy they were that one of them now had ‘direct access’ to God. Then they promised him they would all embrace Christianity if he would use his episcopal power to suppress one of the Ten Commandments for them. Before they could say which of the Commandments they had in mind, the young bishop shocked them by explaining that the Commandments are from God and, therefore, unchangeable. The celebratory mood turned into disappointment and the bishop had to make a hasty departure from his own people.</p>
<p>People may ask for a reduction of their moral responsibilities as they ask for a reduction of taxes. It would be like someone who wants to change doctor because the physician has put him on a diet. He could think that tablets would certainly be easier to take… Taking medicine can be less demanding than following a diet, but tablets aren’t what that patient needs.</p>
<p>We can discuss whether man can change the law of gravity, but man definitely cannot change the Law of God.</p>
<p>Mary, Mother of Justice, help me to love the Law of God and fulfil His Commandments to the full.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_22">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">3rd MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Lk 11:14-23</div>
	<div class="gospel">Some people said, "He casts out demons by Beelzebul, the prince of demons"; ... But Jesus said to them, "Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and a divided household falls. And if Satan also is divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? ... When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own palace, his goods are in peace; but when one stronger than he assails him and overcomes him, he takes away his armour in which he trusted, and divides his spoil.</div>
	<div><p>Evil is not an impersonal force that just happens. It has a name (actually it has many: 'satan', 'Beelzebul, the prince of demons', ‘the deceiver', ‘the father of lies', 'Lucifer', ‘the fallen angel’) and it seeks to master every heart and soul by sin.</p>
<p>He who habitually gives in to temptation leaves the door of his soul unlocked and allows the devil to come in and ‘make himself at home’. It is easy then for him to defend himself from the inside; especially if he is fully armed as the devil is. But we live in the conviction that Jesus is stronger: stronger than doors, locks, walls and windows, and stronger than the devil and his weapons. Let’s repeat it often: the devil has no chance against me if Jesus is with me!</p>
<p>We need to go to Him in time of temptation and ask for help; otherwise we will have no chance. A Christian facing temptation who doesn’t ask Jesus for help is like a gladiator in the arena, surrounded by ten hungry and angry lions, and armed... with a tea spoon! He has no chance. However, with the help of Jesus we are like the same gladiator but armed with a tank: the lions have no chance. Jesus, do not leave me alone when the enemy comes; and if I ever forget to ask you to help me, help me anyway!</p>
<p>Once St Faustina was suffering some dreadful temptations. She went to the Tabernacle and said: “Do what You will with me, O Jesus.“ Suddenly she saw Our Lord saying to her: “Fear nothing: I am always in your heart.” Therefore, if Jesus is there… the devil can’t get in! Besides, with Jesus is always Our Mother, and she is the spouse of St Joseph – who will certainly be with her; she is also the Queen of Angels – so Angels are also there; and Queen of Martyrs, Patriarchs, Saints… – the whole of Heaven is in your heart in Grace!</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_23">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">4th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Mk 12:28-34</div>
	<div class="gospel">And one of the scribes came up and asked him, "Which commandment is the first of all?" Jesus answered, "The first is, 'Hear, O Israel: The Lord our God, the Lord is one; and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind, and with all your strength.' The second is this, 'You shall love your neighbour as yourself.' There is no other commandment greater than these.”</div>
	<div><p>The man asked for “the first” commandment, but Jesus answered quoting ‘the first and the second’. There is a poem written by Leigh Hunt about a man called Abou Ben Adhem who woke from his sleep one night and saw an Angel writing the names of those who love God in a book. "And is mine one?" inquired Abou. "Nay, not so," replied the Angel. "I pray thee, then," said Abou, "write me as one who loves his fellow men." The following night the Angel came again and displayed the names of those who love God and Abou's name topped the list, making the point that true love of God and true love of our neighbour are like two sides of the same coin.</p>
<p>But this charity has to be lived in practical ways. You need to take to your prayer the people who are around you and think of particular acts of charity that they would appreciate. Some are things that you ‘can do’. Some are things that you ‘shouldn’t do’.</p>
<p>In 1940 a train was taking some Jews to a concentration camp. A 15-year-old girl was travelling with her little brother who was 8. Separated from their parents, they were scared. Suddenly the girl realised that her brother had lost his shoes and burst out in anger: “For goodness’ sake! Couldn’t you be responsible for once in your life and take care of your shoes?!” Almost 80 years later she was telling the story in tears. She never saw her little brother again. Those were the last words she said to him. She made the resolution to never say anything that she would regret if they were to be the last words that someone would ever hear from her.</p>
<p>Mary, my Mother, help me be always charitable in my words, to take care of what I say and how I say it…</p>
<p>[Between today and tomorrow we celebrate the 24 Hours for the Lord, a special day for Adoration and Reconciliation.]</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_24">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">5th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Lk 18:9-14</div>
	<div class="gospel">"Two men went up into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, 'God, I thank thee that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week, I give tithes of all that I get.' But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, 'God, be merciful to me a sinner!' I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other."</div>
	<div><p>How ridiculous the prayer of the Pharisee is! He likes to compare himself with others to prove that he is good! How ridiculous it would be if we ever had the temptation to pray like this: –Thank you, Lord, that I’m not like the others: I use the iPray every day, I go to Mass during the week, say my three Hail Marys and do the dishes on Tuesdays... but other people in my class, well, they lie, they cheat with their homework..., some of them do not even go to Mass on Sundays! We cannot compare because we are all different and only God fully knows the different circumstances of each person. Lent is a time for penance and atonement, a time to ask for forgiveness for our sins because we are all sinners.</p>
<p>The power of contrition: This Pharisee was doing lots of good things. He only quotes a few but there were many more. The tax collector did just one: repent. If we weigh up the hundreds of things that the Pharisee did on one side and the contrition of the sinner on the other, contrition wins. Because it’s not about how much we do, but about how much we love. And contrition is real love!</p>
<p>A man went to confession after a long life full of sins. With great contrition he said to the priest at the end: ‘You see, father, how much filth and refuse in my life.’ –‘Indeed’, replied the priest, ‘but your filth and refuse makes a great manure to grow love!’</p>
<p>We live in the recycling era. Lent is a good time to ‘recycle’ our sins and miseries with good acts of contrition.</p>
<p>Mother of God and my Mother, as I make many mistakes during the day, help me to make many acts of contrition, for they are real acts of love!</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_25">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">6th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">Laetare Sunday. 5th Sunday of St Joseph</div>
	<div class="quote"> Lk 15:1-3, 11-32</div>
	<div class="gospel">"There was a man who had two sons; … Now his elder son was in the field; and as he came and drew near to the house, he heard music and dancing. And he called one of the servants and asked what this meant. And he said to him, 'Your brother has come, and your father has killed the fatted calf, because he has received him safe and sound.' But he was angry and refused to go in. His father came out and entreated him, but he answered his father, 'Lo, these many years I have served you, and I never disobeyed your command; yet you never gave me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends. But when this son of yours came, who has devoured your living with harlots, you killed for him the fatted calf!' And he said to him, 'Son, you are always with me, and all that is mine is yours.'"</div>
	<div><p>Today we celebrate Laetare Sunday: "Rejoice, Jerusalem! Be glad for her, you who love her; rejoice with her" we hear in the Entrance Antiphon. Why does the Church invite us to rejoice in the middle of the penitential season of Lent? Because God has had pity on us: salvation is just around the corner!</p>
<p>Today we read again the beautiful parable of the ‘prodigal sons’; yes, the two brothers. We remember well the conversion of the younger one but sometimes don’t pay much attention to the conversion of the elder. That man was living in his father’s house. Probably many neighbours thought he was a good son. But he wasn’t. How can we tell? Because, even though he had everything he wanted, he wasn’t happy. He didn’t want to join a party that wasn’t ‘about him’. For this lad everything was ‘me, myself, my friends, my calf…’ He was physically close to his father but his heart was miles away. Our Lord left the parable unfinished. We don’t know what the elder brother did. Inside the house he had his father, his brother and a party. Outside the house it was dark, cold and lonely. What did he choose? We don’t know, but… what would you choose?</p>
<p>“You are unhappy? — Think: there must be an obstacle between God and me. You will seldom be wrong.” (St Josemaría)</p>
<p>Holy Mary, help me to remove the obstacles between me and God, between me and joy!</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_26">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">7th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">Sts Felicity and Perpetua, Martyrs</div>
	<div class="quote"> Jn 4:43-54</div>
	<div class="gospel">An official whose son was ill… went and begged him to come down and heal his son, for he was at the point of death. Jesus therefore said to him, "Unless you see signs and wonders you will not believe." The official said to him, "Sir, come down before my child dies." Jesus said to him, "Go; your son will live." The man believed the word that Jesus spoke to him and went his way. As he was going down, his servants met him and told him that his son was living.</div>
	<div><p>It is true that many people loved to see Your signs, Lord: they were spectacular! Blind people started to see, deaf people recovered their hearing, paralytics could walk again, loaves and fish were multiplied... But these signs always happened in front of You. The miracle in today’s Gospel is different.</p>
<p>It is as if You, Jesus, are telling the crowd: ‘Those of you who came looking for miracles are going to be disappointed. However, this man has faith and is not seeking any display of power; just the healing of his child’. You, Lord, said: “your son will live” and he believed You, even if he didn’t see it. That is the faith that I’m asking for, Lord.</p>
<p>Have you watched Indiana Jones in ‘The Last Crusade’? Indiana has to get across a seemingly bottomless chasm. All he sees is an insurmountable gap separating him from the other side with no logical way to get across. The ‘historical guidebook’, which he refers to, says crossing over will be ‘a leap of faith’ and his dying father (Sean Connery) whispers “You must believe boy, you must believe.” And so Indiana Jones does: he courageously extends his foot and then, thud, his foot lands on solid ground. The camera pans around to show a bridge that had been invisible to him before. You see? He summoned up enough faith to take a first step and then he could see the bridge. Our trust in God is always expressed in that first faithful step that we take. Although it’s only a film, it provides an example of how we should trust in God, especially when we don’t see what God sees.</p>
<p>Our Lady is a great example of Faith. She said 'Yes' to her vocation without knowing what was coming, with absolute trust in God. May we take after Our Mother in trust.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_27">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">8th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">St John of God</div>
	<div class="quote"> Jn 5:1-16</div>
	<div class="gospel">One man was there, who had been ill for thirty-eight years. When Jesus saw him and knew that he had been lying there a long time, he said to him, "Do you want to be healed?" The sick man answered him, "Sir, I have no man to put me into the pool when the water is troubled, and while I am going another steps down before me." Jesus said to him, "Rise, take up your pallet, and walk." And at once the man was healed, and he took up his pallet and walked.</div>
	<div><p>Thirty-eight!!! Thirty-eight years persistently trying to be healed in that pool and all to no purpose. No one helped him. Then Jesus came without being called and gave him a solution that he had never imagined. How many times we are obsessed with one single solution to a problem, when You, Jesus, have a better one! That man spent thirty-eight years trying to be lowered into the pool and was eventually healed without a drop of water.</p>
<p>But the man’s complaint also gives us something to think about: "Sir, I have no man,” not a single man helped him; no one ever told him: ‘Listen, forget the pool – go to Jesus, Who is more effective. He would love to help you...’ But not a single man said that to him! You and I have friends to help, people who need our assistance to go to God. Lent is a time to bring people to God. It doesn’t matter how bad they are or how long they have been in that state.</p>
<p>João Duarte Cidade left his family at the age of 8. He soon found himself a homeless orphan on the streets in Spain. He worked as a shepherd for a while, then joined the army. He was condemned to death for neglecting his duties but was pardoned before the sentence was carried out. He left the army. At the age of 41 he didn’t know what to do with his life. In January 1537, while listening to a sermon by St John of Ávila, he experienced his conversion. He was to devote his life to the needs of others. He would carry all the homeless beggars and sick people on his shoulders to a house he rented where he fed them, cleaned them and dressed their wounds. St John of God, as he is now known, is often represented with a beggar on his shoulders. Could this also be the image of you and me bringing our friends back to God? Holy Mary, Queen of Apostles, pray for us that we may bring our friends to your Son.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_28">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">9th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Jn 5:17-30</div>
	<div class="gospel">But Jesus answered them, "My Father is working still, and I am working ... Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of his own accord, but only what he sees the Father doing; for whatever he does, that the Son does likewise. For the Father loves the Son, and shows him all that he himself is doing; and greater works than these will he show him, that you may marvel ... "I can do nothing on my own authority; as I hear, I judge; and my judgement is just, because I seek not my own will but the will of him who sent me.</div>
	<div><p>Today’s Gospel follows immediately on from yesterday’s account of the healing of the crippled man by the pool. Apparently some Jews thought that healing on the Sabbath was a bad idea. But You, Lord, answered them that Your Father is working on the Sabbath and so are You, because You do what the Father does.</p>
<p>Jesus is a Good Son, always doing what His Father wants, in perfect unity with Him. Like Father like Son. That's what good children do: they learn everything from their parents. They take after their father and mother in the way they move, speak, or act... It may have happened to you sometimes that someone recognises in you some features or gestures of your mother or father and says: ‘you remind me a lot of your mother’ or ‘your father does the same thing’.</p>
<p>That was Your mission, Jesus: “to remind us of Your Father”, so that we become good children of God the Father, because we learn from You, our Brother, to take after Our Father: birds of a feather... If we are like You, Lord, we will be like the Father. And that’s what You commanded us: “be perfect, as your heavenly Father is perfect” (Mt 5:48).</p>
<p>A protestant man was asking a priest about some points of our Faith that he didn’t understand: the devotion to Mary, priestly celibacy, the practice of mortification, obedience... The wise priest said: ‘I love Mary because Jesus loves Mary; I’m celibate because Jesus is celibate; I mortify myself because Jesus mortified Himself, I obey because Jesus obeyed… I want to be where He is, I want to go where He went… so I do what He did: I follow in His footsteps.’</p>
<p>Mary, my Mother, help me to do the same.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_29">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">10th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Jn 5:31-47</div>
	<div class="gospel">Jesus said to the Jews: “You sent to John, and he has borne witness to the truth. Not that the testimony which I receive is from man; but I say this that you may be saved. He was a burning and shining lamp, and you were willing to rejoice for a while in his light. But the testimony which I have is greater than that of John; for the works which the Father has granted me to accomplish, these very works which I am doing, bear me witness that the Father has sent me.”</div>
	<div><p>St John the Baptist had told his disciples who Jesus was, calling Him ‘the Lamb of God’. Many followed Jesus because of John the Baptist, but when they got to know Him, they didn’t need any testimony from anyone else: they saw with their own eyes what Jesus did. And it was His works which explained Who He was.</p>
<p>Do you remember the encounter of Jesus with the Samaritan woman? She discovered who Jesus was and went back to her village and brought everyone to see Him. When they had met Our Lord they said to her: "It is no longer because of your words that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves, and we know that this is indeed the Saviour of the world." When they saw Him they understood.</p>
<p>We Christians have been given the same task – to give witness to Him with our works. Jesus urged us: “Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven” (Mt 5:16). People follow ‘examples’ more than ‘words’. With our Christian works we give witness to Him. People know that you are Christian not because of what you say or because you wear an ‘I-love-Jesus’ T-shirt, but because of how you behave.</p>
<p>One day an artist was trying to enter an art gallery. All the artists from his academy had been given a free ticket but he had forgotten his. The booking clerk thought he was lying and asked him to pay for a ticket. Instead, the painter took a piece of paper and started drawing a marvellous portrait of him - to the admiration of the people in the queue and the embarrassment of the clerk. The conclusion was evident: he was an artist.</p>
<p>Holy Mary, help me to be recognised as a Christian by my good works!</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_30">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">11th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Jn 7:1-2, 10, 25-30</div>
	<div class="gospel">Some of the people of Jerusalem said, "Is not this the man whom they seek to kill? And here he is, speaking openly, and they say nothing to him! Can it be that the authorities really know that this is the Christ? Yet we know where this man comes from; and when the Christ appears, no one will know where he comes from." So Jesus proclaimed, as he taught in the temple, "You know me, and you know where I come from. But I have not come of my own accord; he who sent me is true, and him you do not know. I know him, for I come from him, and he sent me."</div>
	<div><p>“We know where this man comes from...” They are perplexed: they are waiting for the Messiah; they think that Jesus might even be He, in view of the miracles He works and the doctrine He teaches; but they are not sure... because it doesn’t match with what they “know”. Oh, no! You can’t fool them… because “they know”!</p>
<p>The truth is that they didn’t know Him. They thought they did. This kind of prejudice has always been an obstacle to knowing the truth. Many people are not interested in looking for the truth because they ‘think’ they know it. This Year of Mercy is a good time to pray for those who suffer from prejudices. Throughout history thousands of converts have had to undergo that process to get rid of their prejudices and open the door to the truth.</p>
<p>We would need a Wiki-converts to write all their names. We can summarise all of those stories in one. The story of Saul of Tarsus. Do you remember? He was convinced that he had to crush Christianity and put all his effort into fighting against it. But one day Jesus left him blind for three days and then the scales fell from his eyes. If Jesus could change that heart… why should He not change those you have in mind right now?</p>
<p>“Many people do not know or do not want to know who Jesus Christ is, and they remain perplexed and disconcerted... The great tragedy of history is that Jesus is not known, and therefore is not loved, not followed. You know Christ! You know who He is! Yours is a great privilege! Always be worthy and aware of it!” (St John Paul II)</p>
<p>Mary, my Mother, help me to keep that always fresh in my mind.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_31">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">12th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Jn 7:40-53</div>
	<div class="gospel">The officers then went back to the chief priests and Pharisees, who said to them, "Why did you not bring him?" The officers answered, "No man ever spoke like this man!" The Pharisees answered them, "Are you led astray, you also? Have any of the authorities or of the Pharisees believed in him? But this crowd, who do not know the law, are accursed."</div>
	<div><p>There is a joke about an optician testing a lady’s eyesight. He asks: ‘Madam, which letter do you see on the screen?’ ‘A’, answers the lady. ‘Please, concentrate’, insists the optician: ‘Which letter do you see there, madam?’ ‘A’, replies the lady again. ‘Come on, Madam!’ the exasperated optician asks once more: ‘Try again!’ –‘A’, she insists. The optician, absolutely annoyed, turns around to the screen to point at the letter with his finger and, looking at it, he exclaims: ‘Gosh! You were right! It’s "A".’</p>
<p>Pharisees, like the optician, didn’t check before jumping to conclusions. They ‘knew better’. Why didn’t the Pharisees believe in Jesus? Because they didn’t listen to Him. They never bothered to find out about His message. But those officers did listen to Him; and their lives would never be the same. What good was all their ‘knowledge’ if they couldn’t recognise the Truth?</p>
<p>Good reading leads to the truth: the life of Jesus and the lives of the saints transform people. Edith Stein was a German philosopher. By her teenage years, she no longer practised her Jewish faith and considered herself an atheist. She was reading all sorts of books by philosophers and psychologists. In the summer of 1921 she spent several weeks with some friends. One evening, a bit bored, Edith picked up an autobiography of St. Teresa of Avila and couldn’t put it down, reading for the whole night. "When I had finished the book” she wrote years later, “I said to myself: This is the truth." St Edith Stein became a Catholic and a Carmelite nun. On 7 August 1942, she was deported to Auschwitz, where she died in a gas chamber two days later. It all started with good reading!</p>
<p>Holy Mary, our Hope, Seat of Wisdom, pray for me to be always consistent in my spiritual reading.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_32">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">13th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">7th Sunday of St Joseph</div>
	<div class="quote"> Jn 8:1-11</div>
	<div class="gospel">The scribes and the Pharisees said to him, "Teacher, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery. Now in the law Moses commanded us to stone such. What do you say about her?" … Jesus bent down and wrote with his finger on the ground. And as they continued to ask him, he stood up and said to them, "Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her." And once more he bent down and wrote with his finger on the ground. But when they heard it, they went away, one by one, beginning with the eldest, and Jesus was left alone with the woman standing before him. Jesus looked up and said to her, "Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you?" She said, "No one, Lord." And Jesus said, "Neither do I condemn you; go, and do not sin again."</div>
	<div><p>The Pharisees were ready to stone that woman because she had sinned. They knew Jesus. They knew that He wouldn’t like that and decided to put Him in a tight spot. Yet Jesus doesn’t want to stone sinners but to convert them. He has died for them. He loves sinners!</p>
<p>Nevertheless, He didn’t just say: ‘No, don’t kill her’. He wanted the Pharisees to recognise that they were also sinners: His words sounded like: ‘No problem, you can stone her, – let’s start with the one of you who has never sinned.’ He knew them well. Maybe Jesus was writing on the sand their very sins, one after another… They couldn’t condemn her. But Jesus could, remember? He had no sin. Jesus could say, ‘so they couldn’t condemn you… well, I could. But I won’t’ and the reminder: “do not sin again."</p>
<p>Mother Angelica was walking by the sea when a huge wave crashed at her feet. A small drop of seawater fell on her hand and she returned it to the sea. Then she heard Jesus’ voice inside her say: Angelica, have you seen that drop of water?’ ‘Yes, Lord’, she answered. ‘Those drops are like your sins, your weaknesses, your feebleness and your imperfections. And the ocean is like my Mercy. If you search for that drop, will you be able to find it?’ That is what happens with our sins in confession: they just cease to exist. They can’t be found anymore. Not even by the ‘accuser’, the ‘enemy’.</p>
<p>Holy Mary, Mother of Mercy, pray for us sinners...</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_33">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">14th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Jn 8:12-20</div>
	<div class="gospel">The Pharisees then said to him, "You are bearing witness to yourself; your testimony is not true." Jesus answered, "Even if I do bear witness to myself, my testimony is true, for I know whence I have come and whither I am going, but you do not know whence I come or whither I am going. You judge according to the flesh, I judge no one. Yet even if I do judge, my judgment is true, for it is not I alone that judge, but I and he who sent me. In your law it is written that the testimony of two men is true; I bear witness to myself, and the Father who sent me bears witness to me." They said to him therefore, "Where is your Father?" Jesus answered, "You know neither me nor my Father; if you knew me, you would know my Father also."</div>
	<div><p>Only Jesus’ judgement is “true.” And He is certainly a Just Judge. When men commit crimes they are judged by an official of the government who doesn’t know them. Imagine that a young man gets a fine for speeding in his dad’s car. He goes to court and finds that the judge is… his own father! ‘Why were you speeding in ‘my’ car?’ asks the father-judge. ‘I’m sorry, dad’, replies the lad with true remorse, ‘I just… got carried away with my friends. It was silly. Sorry’. But the judge is an honest judge so he has to apply the law; he condemns him to… let’s say £5,000 (because it was really fast!) The boy has no money, so the father opens his wallet and writes a cheque for the amount. When the youngster sees that, won’t he love his father even more than before? That’s what happens in confession.</p>
<p>Who will condemn you if you are sorry for your sins? God, Who sent His Son to pay for your sins? Jesus, Who died for you and would do it a thousand times (that’s how much He loves you!)? (Ro 8:34). A young girl went to confession. At the end she said: ‘I don’t know what you think of me, father…’ ‘Do you want to know? replied the old priest: ’When I see someone asking for forgiveness I am always moved; when I see your struggle to overcome your defects I am encouraged; when I see your determination my faith is strengthened; when I see your sorrow I am bowled over by God’s Mercy; when I hear your confession I think I am in front of someone who wants to be a saint... Each time I hear your confession I feel more admiration for you and more love for God.’ Is that clear enough?! Mother of Mercy, help me to love the sacrament of Penance more and more each day.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_34">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">15th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Jn 8:21-30</div>
	<div class="gospel">Again he said to them, "I go away, and you will seek me and die in your sin; where I am going, you cannot come ... You are from below, I am from above; you are of this world, I am not of this world. I told you that you would die in your sins, for you will die in your sins unless you believe that I am he." They said to him, "Who are you?" Jesus said to them, "Even what I have told you from the beginning”.</div>
	<div><p>Jesus’ disciples had been with Him a long time by then. They have heard His Words and seen His miracles. And after all that they are still asking, “Who are You?” During this Year of Mercy we feel the special need to pray for those who still don’t know Who He is. Many souls are looking for the answer that can give meaning to their lives.</p>
<p>All the saints have had that passion (some call it ‘zeal’) to reach out to everyone and explain to them who Jesus Christ is, and where He is to be found so that they can go to Him. We also have that apostolic mission, to tell them that Jesus has died for them and that it is, in actual fact, He who is looking for each one of them.</p>
<p>On September 10, 1946, Bl Teresa of Calcutta felt that Jesus was asking her to take His Love to all the abandoned, the sick and the poor. In order to do that, she had to overcome many difficulties and had to take the final step of leaving her convent walls; but Jesus was in a hurry to reach all those souls, and was spurring her on to reach out to those souls who weren’t finding Jesus and didn’t know Him yet. Then she heard these words from Him: ‘You have come to India for me. Are you now afraid to take one more step for me? Has your generosity cooled down? Am I only secondary for you? You did not die for souls; that’s why you don’t care what happens to them. Your heart was never drowned in sorrow as was my Mother’s heart. We both gave ourselves up totally for souls. What about you? ... Will you refuse?’</p>
<p>Blessed Teresa of Calcutta didn’t refuse, as you know, and brought Jesus to thousands of those souls. Now, what about you and me? We have a similar mission.</p>
<p>Our Lady didn’t refuse her mission either. Let us ask Our Mother for the Grace to be faithful to our mission and never refuse it.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_35">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">16th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="quote"> Jn 8:31-42</div>
	<div class="gospel">Jesus then said to the Jews who had believed in him, "If you continue in my word, you are truly my disciples, and you will know the truth, and the truth will make you free." They answered him, "We are descendants of Abraham, and have never been in bondage to any one. How is it that you say, 'You will be made free'?" Jesus answered them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, every one who commits sin is a slave to sin”.</div>
	<div><p>There is the story of a farmer who found an egg in an eagle’s nest. He took it and put it with his chickens. In time an eagle-chick hatched together with the other younglings. This eagle learned the chicken customs: walking through the yard, eating worms... Sometimes he would climb up on to a fence and crash to the ground, crying out, just as chickens do. That yard was his world and he was happy in there.</p>
<p>Sinners are like that eagle. They are locked in their vices but they don’t know they are imprisoned. They don’t know there is a whole world behind the fence and they can pass over that fence because they are meant to fly. But one day, the story goes, the eagle-chick saw a bird soaring through the skies. "Who is that?" he asked. And one of the chickens beside him answered: "It is an eagle that flies majestically, without any effort. But don't look at it any more! Do not look at it, because our life is not like hers; our life is here, in the barnyard."</p>
<p>The story can finish in two ways: 1) the eagle spent the rest of his life in the barn learning to cluck and flutter; or else 2) after trying many, many times, one day—a day he would never forget—he managed to fly, soaring up to the skies. Every sinner has those two options: to remain in their sins and defects without trying to overcome them, as if that were their only reality - or to try to fly. There is a truth that they need to know, a truth that will set them free: They are created to fly!”</p>
<p>You can ask Our Lady today for her help to let you never resign yourself to living a mediocre life, that – with the Grace of the Sacraments – you will never “flutter about like a hen, when you can soar to the heights of an eagle” (St Josemaría).</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_36">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">17th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">St Patrick</div>
	<div class="quote"> Jn 8:51-59</div>
	<div class="gospel">Jesus said to the Jews: Truly, truly, I say to you, if any one keeps my word, he will never see death." The Jews said to him, "Now we know that you have a demon. Abraham died, as did the prophets; and you say, 'If any one keeps my word, he will never taste death.' Are you greater than our father Abraham, who died? And the prophets died! Who do you claim to be?" ... Jesus said to them, "Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was, I am." So they took up stones to throw at him; but Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple.</div>
	<div><p>Jesus didn’t say: ‘before Abraham was, I was’, but “I AM”. Moses had heard God refer to Himself as ‘I AM’ – and Jews, out of reverence, would thereafter never pronounce that Name. But Jesus not only said it, but said it of Himself! They had heard Him say: “I am the Bread of Life, the Light of the world, the Door, the Good Shepherd, the Resurrection and the Life, the Way, the Truth and the Life, the true Vine”... but never before had they heard anyone say ‘I AM’ except God Himself. No wonder they took up stones!</p>
<p>At the trial before the Sanhedrin, the High Priest asked You, Lord, if You were indeed the Christ, the Son of the Living God: “I AM”, was Your unmistakable answer. And that was the end of the dialogue. The High Priest tore his clothes, as a sign of having heard a blasphemy, and You were sentenced to death.</p>
<p>Today is the Feast of St Patrick, the Apostle of Ireland. He is well known for using a shamrock as an image to explain the Trinity of God: ‘See this little plant – three leaves exactly equal – yet all one growth from one stem. The God I preach to you is likewise One and Three – Father, Son and Holy Spirit, Three Persons, One God.’ On Holy Saturday, 633, St Patrick blessed the new fire on the hill of Slane, and the Druids, watching it from Tara, said that if not extinguished, it would blaze in the land forever. They were right. The flame of the fire that St Patrick ignited is still ablaze in the land. Thus the conversion of the Irish began and they have loved the shamrock ever since. From him we have this prayer: ‘I bind to myself this day, the strong power of the Invocation of the Trinity. I believe the Three-ness in the One-ness, the Creator of the Universe.’ Holy Mary, Daughter of God, Mother of God and Spouse of God, pray for us.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_37">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">18th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">St Cyril of Jerusalem</div>
	<div class="quote"> Jn 10:31-42</div>
	<div class="gospel">The Jews took up stones again to stone him. Jesus answered them, "I have shown you many good works from the Father; for which of these do you stone me?" The Jews answered him, "It is not for a good work that we stone you but for blasphemy; because you, being a man, make yourself God." Jesus answered them, "... do you say of him whom the Father consecrated and sent into the world, 'You are blaspheming,' because I said, 'I am the Son of God? If I am not doing the works of my Father, then do not believe me; but if I do them, even though you do not believe me, believe the works, that you may know and understand that the Father is in me and I am in the Father."</div>
	<div><p>No matter what miracle or even how many miracles they saw, they would not believe. They were blind because they didn’t want to see. They wanted to stone Jesus because being a man, He made himself God, when it was exactly the opposite: being God, He made Himself a man! The truth is that these Pharisees didn’t want to believe in Him. Believing in Jesus would entail changing their way of life.</p>
<p>This happens sometimes with those who don’t want to accept the moral law because it is not ‘convenient’ for them. They don’t want to know the truth – so they can carry on doing what they want. If a driver is stopped by the police for speeding, it is no use him saying ‘sorry officer, I didn’t know there was a speed limit’. Like it or not, and whether you know it or not … there is a speed limit. It isn't there to take the fun out of driving; it's there so that everyone can get to their destination safely.</p>
<p>An old man thought that his wife was losing her hearing. To check it out he approached her from behind while she was sitting in her lounge chair, and whispered: ‘Honey, can you hear me?’ He got no response. He moved a little closer and repeated softly: ‘Honey, do you hear me?‘ No response. Finally he moved right next to her and said: ‘Honey, can you hear me now?’ This time she looked up with surprise in her eyes and replied: ‘For the third time, Henry, yes, I can hear you!’ It was Henry, then, who really had the hearing problem. It was the Pharisees who were deaf, not Jesus who wasn’t ‘sound’.</p>
<p>My Mother, intercede for me so that may I never become blind or deaf to the Will of God.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_38">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">19th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">St Joseph</div>
	<div class="quote"> Lk 2:41-51</div>
	<div class="gospel">After three days they found him in the temple, sitting among the teachers, listening to them and asking them questions; ... and his mother said to him, "Son, why have you treated us so? Behold, your father and I have been looking for you anxiously." And he said to them, "How is it that you sought me? Did you not know that I must be in my Father's house?" And they did not understand the saying which he spoke to them. And he went down with them and came to Nazareth, and was obedient to them.</div>
	<div><p>The most wonderful Treasures of God (Jesus and Mary) could not be entrusted to anyone other than St Joseph. No one, ever, has been trusted more and so, no one ever has been given more. St Joseph is compared to the other Patriarch, Joseph, the son of Jacob. Sold by his brothers, he ended up a slave in Egypt. But God was with him and eventually he was entrusted with all of Pharaoh’s fortune. So when the famine came and people started asking Pharaoh for help he just told them: Ite ad Joseph! (Go to Joseph!)</p>
<p>If you want to find Jesus, go to Joseph – he found Him after three sorrowful days; if you want to love Jesus, go to Joseph – he loves Him madly; if you want to love Mary, go to Joseph – no man has ever loved his wife like him; if you want to be always close to Jesus and Mary, go to Joseph – no one has ever been closer to them; if you want to pray, go to Joseph – he spent his life in dialogue with God; if you go through difficulties, go to Joseph – he knows all about suffering. If you want to be strong, he is the saint to go to; if you want to be obedient, chaste, generous, humble, joyful, sincere... if you want to be holy: ite ad Joseph! Go to Joseph.</p>
<p>If you want to be in love with God, to work with God, to live with God, to stay always with God, to dream God’s dreams, to serve God and spend your eternity with Him... ite ad Joseph!... go to Joseph. God entrusted him with His Family, he is in charge of the house of God; he will open for us the door of Bethlehem, of Nazareth and of Heaven if we go to him. He protected God and His Immaculate Mother... he can protect you as well if you want. Holy Mary, remind me to go to Joseph, for it would be foolish for me not to count on him in my struggle!</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_39">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">20th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">Palm Sunday</div>
	<div class="quote"> Lk 22:14-23:56</div>
	<div class="gospel">Jesus went to the Mount of Olives; and the disciples followed him. And when he came to the place he said to them, "Pray that you may not enter into temptation." And he withdrew from them about a stone's throw, and knelt down and prayed, "Father, if thou art willing, remove this cup from me; nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done." Then an angel from heaven appeared to him and gave him strength. In his anguish he prayed more earnestly, and his sweat became like great drops of blood falling down on the ground. And when he rose from prayer, he came to the disciples and found them sleeping for sorrow, and he said to them, "Why do you sleep? Rise and pray that you may not enter into temptation." While he was still speaking, there came a crowd, and the man called Judas, one of the twelve, was leading them. He drew near to Jesus to kiss him; but Jesus said to him, "Judas, would you betray the Son of man with a kiss?"</div>
	<div><p>Today we read the whole account of the Passion of Our Lord as an introduction to Holy Week. We see Our Lord in agony in Gethsemane. As He is God, He could see in great detail what was coming. He could see the blows and shoves of the soldiers. He could feel the shackles and chains clamping His Sacred Limbs. He could count the whippings one after another. He could number the thorns of His Crown, the blows of the reed on His Sacred Head. He could hear the mockery and insults, all the blasphemies that would come out of those shouting mouths. He could perceive the weight of the Cross on His Shoulders tearing His already wounded Skin. He could feel the nails piercing His Hands and Feet, the spear breaking His Sacred Heart…</p>
<p>These left scars on His Body but there were also wounds in His Soul: desertion, rejection, abandonment, the betrayal of those He loved. They fell asleep with indifference, ran away with fear, hid with cowardice… And one of them ‘sold’ Him out of greed.</p>
<p>A priest once had a dream. He met the Angel who comforted Our Lord during His Agony. He asked the Angel with curiosity: ’What did you say to Jesus to console Him that night?’ The Angel replied: ‘I talked to Him about you…’ Dear Lord, I love You. I don’t want to fall asleep. I don’t want to run away. I want to comfort You, staying close to Your Mother, during this Holy Week.</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_40">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">21st MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">Monday of Holy Week</div>
	<div class="quote"> Jn 12:1-11</div>
	<div class="gospel">Mary took a pound of costly ointment of pure nard and anointed the feet of Jesus and wiped his feet with her hair; and the house was filled with the fragrance of the ointment. But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples (he who was to betray him), said, "Why was this ointment not sold for three hundred denarii and given to the poor?" This he said, not that he cared for the poor but because he was a thief, and as he had the money box he used to take what was put into it. Jesus said, "Let her alone, let her keep it for the day of my burial. The poor you always have with you, but you do not always have me."</div>
	<div><p>Thank you, Mary, for your generosity! Thank you for your example, for loving Jesus so much. Thank you for giving Him joy before His Passion, for pouring on Him all of the perfume and not just a few drops. Thank you for filling the atmosphere with the fragrance of your generosity, the scent of your love.</p>
<p>Thank you for your contrition, because being a sinner (Jesus cast out 7 demons from you!) you were forgiven much. And because you loved much, you were given more. And for receiving so much you gave Him even more. That jar was like your heart: you poured out not just a bit of love but your whole heart. That fragrance was the perfume of your love. Thank you, Mary, for teaching me to love Jesus Christ!</p>
<p>Thank you, Mary, for not being intimidated by Judas, by anyone, nor even by what others might think of you. Thank you for being with Jesus during His last sorrowful week. Thank you for not running away or leaving Our Lord alone as many did. Thank you for your courage. Thank you for your fidelity. Thank you, also, for accompanying our Lady during her ordeal. Thank you for being at the foot of the Cross. Thank you for taking the Dead Body of Jesus in your arms, for kissing It, for helping to clean It, to embalm It, to bury It. Thank you for going to the tomb early on Sunday. Thank you for running back from the tomb to announce the Resurrection!</p>
<p>Mary, forget Judas’ comment, he has vanished; but the aroma of your love will never vanish. Oh, Mary of Bethany, I am a sinner... as you were… will you teach me to be a generous lover of Jesus... as you are?</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_41">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">22nd MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">Tuesday of Holy Week</div>
	<div class="quote"> Jn 13:21-33, 36-38</div>
	<div class="gospel">Simon Peter said to Jesus, "Lord, where are you going?" Jesus answered, "Where I am going you cannot follow me now; but you shall follow afterward." Peter said to him, "Lord, why cannot I follow you now? I will lay down my life for you." Jesus answered, "Will you lay down your life for me? Truly, truly, I say to you, the cock will not crow, till you have denied me three times.</div>
	<div><p>Oh, Peter! You loved but you were weak. You trusted too much in yourself. You used the sword against the High Priest’s guard but trembled before a little servant. Peter, the Rock, head of the apostles, to save your own skin you swore and denied Jesus three times. You could say: 'I was not the only coward that night!' Certainly. Matthew and Mark’s Gospels explain that the other disciples also said they would die with Jesus but, all except John, took to their heels and abandoned Him.</p>
<p>But your conversion, Peter, comforts me. Because I have also said to Jesus many times that I love Him and I have later turned my back on Him too. At times I thought that I could overcome a vice or would never commit a particular sin again... I have told Jesus often: 'I'll never do that again!' and a little bit later I did it again... But you, Peter, giving witness to Jesus in front of three thousand, standing in front of the Sanhedrin defending Jesus, locked in prison many times, persecuted... you comfort me. For you are the same Peter who had denied Jesus three times and had been afraid of a little servant – yet you became the stronghold of Christianity.</p>
<p>Your conversion happened at a Look of Our Lord. You, Peter, never forgot those beautiful Eyes of Jesus looking at you with sorrow and disappointment. That Look remained with you for the rest of your life. Those Eyes which saw your own eyes weep with sorrow. Those eyes which saw you giving witness to Jesus Crucified. Those Eyes saw you hanging on a cross upside down, faithful, firm, strong like a Rock! Those Eyes received you in Heaven with a satisfied and loving smile. Yes, Peter, you failed but your contrition made you greater than ever! Peter, going to Our Lady for consolation, as you surely did, help me to learn the lesson: “Lord, You know everything”, you know my miseries… but “You know that I love You!”</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_42">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">23rd MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">Wednesday of Holy Week</div>
	<div class="quote"> Mt 26:14-25</div>
	<div class="gospel">Judas Iscariot went to the chief priests and said, "What will you give me if I deliver him to you?" And they paid him thirty pieces of silver ... When it was evening, he sat at table with the twelve disciples; and as they were eating, he said, "Truly, I say to you, one of you will betray me ... The Son of man goes as it is written of him, but woe to that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! It would have been better for that man if he had not been born." Judas, who betrayed him, said, "Is it I, Master?" He said to him, "You have said so."</div>
	<div><p>Oh dear! Judas! Judas!! What has happened to you? Where is the Judas who was a chosen apostle? Where is the man whom Jesus met and told: ‘Come, follow me’? Judas, you did follow Him, you heard Him, you saw His miracles, and surely, you loved Jesus for a while. Have you forgotten the days on which you saw wonders and went to sleep smiling, regardless of being exhausted and having to sleep in the open? You, Judas, were so privileged: “many prophets and righteous men longed to see what you saw, and did not see it, and to hear what you heard, and did not hear it”.</p>
<p>Judas, when did you start feeling disappointed? When did you start taking for granted those times you spent with Jesus? When did you become inattentive or insensitive to His Words? When did you start thinking about yourself and your future, your plans, instead of thinking about what Jesus told you? When did you stop praying? When did you stop telling Jesus what was going on in your soul? It was then, Judas, that you started rating Jesus in coins; it was then that your betrayal began. Because that betrayal didn’t happen overnight. It was a slow distancing, a slippery slope from which Jesus could have saved you if you had asked for help…</p>
<p>Judas, why didn’t you come back to Jesus afterwards? It didn’t matter what you had done; Jesus would have forgiven you everything. Why, Judas? Why didn’t you go to Him – repentant – and kiss Him again but this time with love and not with fear? You know how much Jesus loved you. You can imagine how much He cried for you! Judas! Why didn’t you come back… as Peter and Mary Magdalene and Dimas - the Good Thief - and Paul … and me? If it was too difficult, you could always have asked for Our Lady’s help!</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_43">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">24th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">Maundy Thursday</div>
	<div class="quote"> Jn 13:1-15</div>
	<div class="gospel">Now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his own who were in the world, he loved them to the end … He rose from supper, laid aside his garments, and girded himself with a towel. Then he poured water into a basin, and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel with which he was girded.</div>
	<div><p>My Dear Jesus, when I see You washing the feet of the Apostles I understand what Love is. When I see You – Son of God – on Your Knees, washing with Your Divine Hands some of the dirtiest feet of Judea at the time, including the two feet of the disciple who had already betrayed You... I see how much You love! The Master at the feet of His servants, God kneeling before His creatures, the Superior serving the inferior… But don't mums do the same when they tie their children’s laces or feed them or help them get dressed?</p>
<p>Love engenders humility. We could say that humility is the daughter of Charity and always goes with her mother. The more we live charity, the more humble we become. I know how much You love me, Lord, when I see You as a poor Child in Bethlehem for me; or when I contemplate You Crucified for my sins… But I understand it plainly when I see You in a Piece of Bread.</p>
<p>When St John Paul II was elected Pope he began his papal ministry at an intense pace. A young priest who started working with him for the first time complained to the Pope’s secretary: ‘I am exhausted! I can’t follow him! What does he have for breakfast? Where does he get the energy?!‘ The secretary smiled and said nothing at the time, but after lunch he asked the young priest to follow him. He led him to the Pope’s chapel and explained: ‘What he eats in the mornings is the Body of Christ… and where he gets the energy is from here!’ On entering the Oratory they found St John Paul II prostrated on the floor in front of the Tabernacle absorbed in prayer.</p>
<p>Ask Our Lady to teach you to love Our Lord. You can pray often: “I wish, Lord, to receive You with the purity, humility and devotion with which Your most holy Mother received You, with the spirit and fervour of the saints.” (This is the spiritual communion St Josemaría learnt as a child.)</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_44">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">25th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">Good Friday</div>
	<div class="quote"> Jn 18:1-19:42</div>
	<div class="gospel">So they took Jesus, and he went out, bearing his own cross, to the place called the place of a skull, which is called in Hebrew Golgotha. There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, and Jesus between them. Pilate also wrote a title and put it on the cross; it read, "Jesus of Nazareth, the King of the Jews" ... When the soldiers had crucified Jesus they took his garments and made four parts, one for each soldier; also his tunic. But the tunic was without seam, woven from top to bottom; so they said to one another, "Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it to see whose it shall be." ... But standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Clopas, and Mary Magdalene. When Jesus saw his mother, and the disciple whom he loved standing near, he said to his mother, "Woman, behold, your son!" Then he said to the disciple, "Behold, your mother!" And from that hour the disciple took her to his own home. After this Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, said (to fulfil the scripture), "I thirst." A bowl full of vinegar stood there; so they put a sponge full of the vinegar on hyssop and held it to his mouth. When Jesus had received the vinegar, he said, "It is finished"; and he bowed his head and gave up his spirit.</div>
	<div><p>St Thomas Aquinas said his manual was the Crucifix. Certainly in the Cross we find the answer to all questions, the example of all virtue, the solution to every problem. Today I want to contemplate Your Passion slowly, thoroughly, in detail. Your Head bleeding with thorns. Your Eyes swollen. Your Cheeks bruised with blows. Your Lips broken and dry. Your Beard yanked. Your Face covered with Blood, sweat and spit. Your Torso torn up. Your Arms stretched open, dislocated and ripped. Your Hands pierced. Your Lungs waterlogged. Your gasping breath, Your pierced Feet, Your bruised Knees… And on top of that physical suffering I consider the moral one: Judas, Your friend, hanged. Your disciples hidden. People insulting, laughing and jeering at You.</p>
<p>My Lord, I can’t take Your sufferings from You but I can comfort You with my own sufferings and during the Holy Mass. That’s what Your Mother – My Mother – does; and John, and Mary Magdalene and Mary the wife of Clopas… and I. “The Blessed Eucharist is the perfect Sacrament of the Lord's Passion, since It contains Christ Himself and His Passion”. (St. Thomas Aquinas)</p>
</div>
</div>
	<hr/>	<div id="contentDay_45">
	<div class="space" ></div>	<div class="superday">26th MARCH<a class="back_cal" href="tableOfContents.xhtml"> [calendar]</a></div>	<div class="saintTittle">Holy Saturday</div>
	<div class="quote"> No Mass today</div>
	<div class="gospel"></div>
	<div><p>Today the altar is left bare and no Mass is celebrated. Holy Saturday is a silent day. Creation is in silence. Heaven is in silence too; the angels haven’t forgotten what men did to Jesus yesterday... Christ’s Body lies in the grave, and you and I sit by the Corpse in grief. His cold, dead Body still bears the scars of the intense suffering, those mortal wounds on His Body that will remain visible for all eternity. They remind humanity of the price of our sins. See on His serene Face the injuries received to erase our sins. See there the marks of the blows received in order to refashion our warped nature in His Image. On His Back see the impression of the scourging endured to remove the burden of sin that weighs upon our shoulders. See those Hands, nailed firmly to a tree, for us; the holes on those Feet that walked the earth, giving hope.</p>
<p>His disciples are weeping in a dark corner of Jerusalem, not daring to hope. Their Master is dead. Their hopes are dead. Their dreams are over. The Body that they followed, the One they loved, is now cold and stiff. Jesus is dead. We would love to remind them that Holy Saturday is past. Holy Saturday was only ‘once’ and is now over. Easter Sunday has come and the Dead is now alive. He will never die again! To all those Christians who today still live in a perpetual ‘Holy Saturday’, discouraged and without hope, we can proclaim that Jesus died but is not dead anymore. And the Tabernacle is not a tomb. Jesus is alive!</p>
<p>But today let’s stay with Our Mother. Still in sorrow as she recalls her Son’s Passion, Our Mother is serene; she has hope. She remembers the promise of the Resurrection. She teaches us to trust. With her, we hold her divine Son’s body: “I will press my arms tightly round the cold Body, the corpse of Christ, with the fire of my love...; I will unnail it, with my reparation and mortifications..., I will wrap it in the new winding-sheet of my clean life, and I will bury it in the living rock of my breast, where no one can tear it away from me, and there, Lord, take your rest! Were the whole world to abandon you and to scorn you... serviam!, I will serve you, Lord” (St Josemaría).</p>
</div>
</div>

</body>
</html>